 

 

Page 1 of 4 
 
In the name of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful 
 
Praise be to God, Lord of the universe, and peace and prayers be 
upon our Prophet Muhammad, his family, and all of his companions 
 
Now then... 
 
To the noble brother, Shaykh Mahmud, may God protect him 
Peace be upon you, God’s Mercy and Blessings 
 
I hope you receive this message of mine while you, your family, 
children, and all of the brothers are in good health. 
 
So, 
 
- With regard to what you had mentioned in a previous message, 
that some brothers may go to Iran as part of a plan to protect 
the brother, thus I see that Iran is not suitable. Also, when 
choosing the areas where the brothers will be inside Pakistan 
it’s necessary to take into consideration that they are not 
areas that encountered floods or may encounter them in the 
future. 
 
- With regard to the brothers coming from Iran, thus I see, at 
this stage, that they be at safe locations outside the areas 
being attacked. 
 
- Regarding what’s related to Pakistan, thus I didn’t take a 
look at the report you mentioned. However, the opinion in 
general is to be concerned with calming things down and focusing 
efforts on the Americans. 
 
- With regard to what pertains to appointing the brothers in the 
administrative positions, thus I see that they pledge an 
allegiance that would include some points, which would protect 
the work and its secrets. Therefore, I hope that you all 
deliberate concerning the matter and inform me of your opinion, 
and amongst the proposed points, for example: 
 
1- Listening, obedience, and Jihad so as to bring back the 
Caliphate. 
 
Page 2 of 4 

 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000003-HT 

 

 
2- Protect operational secrets. 
 
3- Protect the work he is going to be responsible for, and 
provide advice to the leadership. 
 
- Regarding what brother Basir mentioned relating to Anwar al-
‘Awlaqi, it would be excellent if you inform him, on my behalf 
in a private message to him, to remain in his position where he 
is qualified and capable of running the matter in Yemen.  
 
Therefore, he shall continue, by the blessings of God, as he has 
the characteristics that makes him capable of that. 
Additionally, the presence of some of the characteristics by our 
brother Anwar al-‘Awlaqi is a good thing, in order to serve 
Jihad, and how excellent would it be if he gives us a chance to 
be introduced to him more. 
 
- Also, I hope that he be informed of us still needing more 
information from the battlefield in Yemen, so that it is 
feasible for us, with the help of God, to make the most 
appropriate decision to either escalate or calm down. And with 
regard to informing us of the situations by them, thus I hope 
that brother Basir writes me his vision in detail about the 
situations and also asks brother Anwar al-‘Awlaqi to write his 
vision in detail in a separate message, as well as brother Abu-
Sufyan Sa’id al-Shahri, to send his vision in detail and 
separate. 
 
How excellent would it be if you ask brother Basir to send us 
the resume, in detail and lengthy, of brother Anwar al-‘Awlaqi, 
as well as the facts he relied on when recommending him, while 
informing him that his recommendation is considered. However, we 
would like to be reassured more. For example, we here become 
reassured of the people when they go to the line and get 
examined there. 
 
Page 3 of 4 
 
Also, I hope that brother Basir be informed that the media 
appearance is his task, and in general, they should reduce the 
appearance during this period unless necessary, and if necessity 
calls for one of the brothers to issue a speech, thus Basir 
should review it before it’s broadcasted in the media. It shall 
be pointed out, whereas you didn’t point out, that the speech of 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000003-HT 

 

brother Sa’id al-Shahri that was issued about the apprehension 
of one of the sisters in Saudi was not appropriate at the time. 
 
With regard to what you mentioned in a previous message, 
regarding your opinion to reduce the correspondence, thus we are 
concerned with the security aspect, yet I have a tape for the 
nation that includes instigation of the people of Iraq and 
preaching to the Awakenings to return to the Mujahidin. I am 
going to send it, God willing, the next time, thus you can 
arrange with the courier to have the card that’s going to 
contain this statement delivered to the media section directly, 
and if a necessary matter develops, we are going to attach to 
you a message that will be sent to you by the media section. 
 
- Attached with this message is a visual statement to the 
American people that I hope a copy of it be given to the 
International Al Jazeera and the Arab Al Jazeera. I also hope 
for it to be translated (voice over) to English and to be 
delivered to the Al Jazeera channel prior to the anniversary of 
9/11, to be broadcasted during it. Also, two copies of it are 
attached, one of which is recorded and the other written. 
 
- We sent you, along with the messages that preceded this, a 
statement regarding the floods of Pakistan. Its broadcasting to 
media was delayed, thus perhaps it’s for a good reason. However, 
in any case, I had attached the content of this card to this 
message. 
 
- Note: Please broadcast the flood statement before the American 
People statement, as the American People statement to be during 
the anniversary of 9/11. 
 
- Attached is a message from my son Khalid to brother ‘Abd-al-
Latif, and a message to the brothers in the media section. 
 
Page 4 of 4 
 
In conclusion, I ask God, the Glorified and Almighty, to protect 
you and to make you successful towards what He loves and is 
satisfied with, and the last of our prayers is praise be to God, 
Lord of the Universe, and peace and prayers be upon our Prophet 
Muhammad, his family, and all of his companions. 
 
Peace be upon you, God’s Mercy and Blessings 
 
Thursday 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000003-HT 

 

17 Ramadan 1431 Hijri (TN: 27 August 2010) 
 
(TN: End of translation) 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000003-HT