Page: 1 
 
In the name of God most merciful  
 
To Shaykh Mahmud, may God protect him, 
 
I hope that this letter finds you while you and your family are in good health 
 
I offer my condolences to you for the death of our beloved brothers. May God have mercy on their soul 
and consider them among the martyrs.  
 
This is the path of Jihad. God said, “You will sacrifice you money and yourselves for the sake of God.”   
 
They struck us and we will strike them back. Anyone who looks at the enemies in NATO, especially 
America, will know that they are in big trouble. This year has been the worst year for them in 
Afghanistan since they invaded it. The number of their dead has never been this high according to their 
own reports. Their financial crisis continues. Britain has lowered is defense budget and America is 
reducing the budget of the Pentagon.  
 
Anyone who knows the world and knows politics, knows that it is impossible for them to continue with 
the war. There is no difference between them and the Soviet Union before it withdrew from 
Afghanistan. As for the local enemies, as you know, they are in big trouble and the government is in 
danger of falling, especially after the floods and the increase  in the number of those who are suffering 
from the financial crisis. Their difficult situation was the reason for the crisis between them and NATO.   
 
Page: 2 
 
You know of the size of the disagreement between the two sides after they closed the border. Through 
the generosity of God, the situation is moving in the direction of al-Mujahidin. You should be patient and 
strong and God will reward us. 
 
-Regarding the brothers in Wasiristan in general, whoever can keep a low profile and take the necessary 
precautions, should stay in the area and those who cannot do so, their first option is to go to Nuristan in 
Kunar, Gazni or Zabil. I am leaning toward getting most of the brothers out of the area. We could leave 
the cars because they are targeting cars now, but if we leave them, they will start focusing on houses 
and that would increase casualties among women and children.  It is possible that they have 
photographed targeted homes. The brothers who can keep a low profile and take the necessary 
precautions should stay, but move to new houses on a cloudy day. 
 
A warning to the brothers: they should not meet on the road and move in their cars because many of 
them got targeted while they were meeting on the road. They also should not enter the market in their 
cars. 
 
Note: there is no comparison between the fortification of Kunar and Zabil and Gazni. Kunar is more 
fortified due to its rougher terrain and the many mountains, rivers, and trees and it can accommodate 
hundreds of the brothers without being spotted by the enemy. This will defend the brothers from the 
aircrafts, but will not defend them from the traitors. 
 

SOCOM-2012-0000015-HTAlso, the brothers should enter those areas to fight and attack the enemy. 
 
-As for you, if you think that it is dangerous to move by car, then you can stay in the area, but you need 
to do your work through two brothers, and only one of them should carry your messages to the 
brothers. The key individuals for your work are your first deputy, second deputy, military commander, 
and four or five other brothers.  
 
Page: 3 
 
They can through their own ways deliver the messages to the other brothers. The brother should visit 
you no more than once or twice a week.  
 
The other brother comes to you only for necessary issues only, even if this slows down the work. We 
pray to God for things to change. You should know the locations of the brothers, but they should not 
know your location, except for the carriers.  
 
Note: tell the brothers that the ban is not only to those who come by car. The amir should not meet 
anyone except the two carriers. The Americans have great accumulative experience in photography of 
the area due to the fact that they have been doing it in the area for so many years. They can distinguish 
between houses frequented by men at a higher rate than usual. Also, the visiting person might be 
tracked without him knowing. This applies to locals too.  
 
Inform the brothers that this is the arrangement for every amir at this time. 
 
It is important to have the leadership in a faraway location to gain expertise in all areas. When this 
experienced leadership dies, this would lead to the rise of lower leaders who are not as experienced as 
the former leaders and this would lead to the repeat of mistakes. Remind your deputies that all 
communication with others should be done through letters. 
 
-In a previous letter I asked you to get an oath from the brothers that would include:  
1-Obediance and jihad for the sake of restoring the caliphate  
2-Keep the secret of work 
3-Safeguad the work that they are responsible for and provide advice to the leadership 
 
Page: 4 
 
Take the oath even from brothers who gave the oath in the past. 
 
Regarding the first and second deputy, send me the text of the oath and let me know which brothers 
can take on this responsibility in the future. 
 
-Regarding brother Muhammad Shawqi Abu-Ja’far, if he arrived at your location, please arrange for him 
a safe place and explain to him in details the danger in moving and all security precautions.  
 
If he is on the road, then make the arrangements for him, he might be with the brothers in Kunar. 
Explain to him in details about the situation in Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Wasiristan. Then, he can give 
you his opinion about the location that he is in. He should be informed of the nature of work and he 
should be consulted on things that are being discussed.  

SOCOM-2012-0000015-HT 
-In your letter, you talked about your relationship with Abu-Salman al-Baluchi. I know that he is good 
Mujahid and got detained in the past, but some of the Baluchi people that he knows work for the 
Pakistani intelligence. Therefore, I advise you to be careful and not talk to him about your news and 
secrets. Also, for that reason, my son Hamzah should not be at his place or anywhere near him. 
 
Regarding my son Hamzah and his mother, I wish you take all the security precautions that were 
mentioned before in order to disrupt surveillance on him. He should move only when the clouds are 
heavy. Then, ‘Um-Hamzah goes to the middle-man on my side. I asked him to make all the remaining 
arrangements. I also asked him to make sure that they read the letter before they go in order to alert 
them to some security precautions including not taking with them any of the things that they had in 
Iran, such as their suitcases.  As for Hamzah, if you find my companion that we talked about, please send 
him to Peshawar and the surrounding area and ask him to arrange a house that can hold two families in 
addition to his family. He should stay there with Hamzah. If you did not find him yet, then please have a 
trusted Pakistani brother accompany him. Make sure to tell Hamzah that I am of the opinion that he 
needs to get out of Wasiristan if he is there, and he should not go there if he is not there. What I said 
regarding Hamzah applies to ‘Uthman and Muhammad if they come from Iran. 
 
Page: 5 
 
Regarding the deputy position, Shaykh Abu Yahya should be the one for a year from the date of the 
appointment of Shaykh Sa’id (may God rest his soul), but he should give his greatest attention to the 
issue of shari’a research that we talked about in the past especially for Somalia and the Islamic 
Maghreb. The brothers in the Islamic Maghreb might experience divisions. To avoid this, the research 
that you said that you are going to prepare on dealing with the apostates should be sent to them. It 
should be complete and comprehensive and it should include the opinions of the scholars. This is a very 
important issue. I have attached a letter from myself to Brother ‘Abd-al-Rahman. You can look at and it 
contains my order to him to be your second deputy. Our situation cannot accept baseless excuses from 
anyone. Do the same thing with ‘Abd-al-Jalil. Appoint him as a second deputy if you need to for a year 
from the date of the arrival of your letter to him with the possibility for renewal.   
 
I have sent you also a file named Attachments for Shaykh Mahmud and it includes parts of the Yemen 
message. Since you lived there with the brothers for a while, please read it and make some adjustments 
in it to make it appropriate for your area. If possible, please add it to the files of brother ‘Abd-al-Wadud 
or you can send it to them as part of your correspondence to them. Please let us know which sections 
you will send to them. Do not send the parts that I sent to them in the letter of the general policy. 
 
-We did not receive the letter from shaykh Abu-Yahya which mentiones the Islamic Maghreb. 
 
-In the last letter when I used the term “external work,” I meant the work of shaykh Yunis and the work 
inside western countries. 
 
-It seems that there is a misunderstanding regarding the issue of Jihadi media. It is a main piece of the 
war and I did not mean that it should be abandoned. I just wanted to point out that the level of 
interviews did not reach the desired level and I called on you to do better. 
 
-Regarding the program  Witness to History (TN: a program on al-Jazirah), I do not like it because the 
host of the program uses improper language sometimes. 

SOCOM-2012-0000015-HT 
Page: 6 
 
-Regarding my letter to brother Basir, if you get any important comments from Shaykh Abu-Muhammad 
on the letter in general, please send them to me. Also, if you or shaykh Abu-Muhammad have 
comments on any of the paragraphs, you can delete these paragraphs and send the letter to brother 
Basir. 
 
If you did not get anything form Abu-Muahammad due to the difficulty in communicating between you 
two, and if you do not have any important comments, then go ahead and send it to Basir because it 
contains a request to the brother to provide us information on the situation in their area and 
clarification on some of the events that took place in the Muslim world. 
 
Regarding the negotiations for the release of the Afghani prisoner in your area, you should be careful in 
the way that you deal with the negotiators. Many mistakes can happen when you receive the money. 
This also applies to donation money. You should take all security precautions. My suggestion is to rent a 
house in Peshawar and the money should be delivered in it. After the mission, the brother leaves the 
house.  
 
Make sure to get the money exchanged at money exchangers. You should also get rid of the bag that the 
money was in because it might have a chip. The brother should take the money, get in a taxi, and go to 
the center of the market and get to a roofed section of the market. Two brothers should be waiting for 
him there and he should give them the money to bring it to you. The money should be in euro or dollars. 
After that, he should evade surveillance and stay away from the brothers that he gave the money to. 
 
Negotiators should not be met in Wasiristan (the area where the American aerial photography is active), 
unless there is a perfect plan that would prevent the enemy for tracking those negotiators or the 
brothers. You should know that the news of the negotiations might reach the Americans. 
        
Page: 7 
 
Note: the brother should not be one of the leaders.  
 
-Perhaps you monitored the trial of brother Faysal Shahzad. In it he was asked about the oath that he 
took when he got American citizenship. And he responded by saying that he lied. You should know that 
it is not permissible in Islam to betray trust and break a covenant. Perhaps the brother was not aware of 
this. Please ask the brothers in Taliban Pakistan to explain this point to their members. In one of the 
pictures, brother Faysal Shahzad was with commander Mahsud; please find out if Mahsud knows that 
getting the American citizenship requires talking an oath to not harm America. This is a very important 
matter because we do not want al-Mujahidn to be accused of breaking a covenant. 
 
-Due to the abundance of blessings, you need to establish a special section for planning military 
operations at the fronts. It is should have experienced brothers and you should provide them with the 
latest equipment. You should also task some brothers with summarizing books on warfare and publish 
these summaries and give them to the brothers and the leaders. As for the brothers who are in charge 
of planning, they should be kept in a safe location outside the battlefield. They should conduct studies 
and preparations before operations. They should also film and document operations in order to learn 
from mistakes and avoid them in future operations. 

SOCOM-2012-0000015-HT 
Also, attention should be paid to the medical aspect, especially during withdrawal after the operation. 
 
-Please have brother ‘Azzam translate the book the Most Important Things About al-Qa’ida by Robert 
Fisk and then send the translation to me.  
 
-The tenth anniversary to the attack 9/11 is coming and due to the importance of this date, attention 
should be paid to start preparing for now. Please send me you suggestions on this. 
 
Page: 8 
 
We need to benefit from this event and get our messages to the Muslims and celebrate the victory that 
they achieved. We need to restore their confidence in their nation and motivate them. We should also 
present our just cause to the world, especially to the European people. We will have a lot to show, 
therefore we should not depend on one media outlet to cover that event. If al-Jazirah shows 
responsiveness, we should contact the correspondent of al-Jazirah Arabic and English and tell them that 
we are willing to cooperate with them in the area of covering the tenth anniversary by answering any 
questions that you think the public is interested in. You can point out to them that this way they will be 
showing the other opinion. Note: all correspondence, letters, and negotiations should be in the name of 
al-Sahab. 
 
We should also look for an American channel that can be close to being unbiased, such as CBS, or other 
channel that has political motives that make it interested in broadcasting the point of view of al-
Mujahidin. Then, we can send to the channel the material that we want the Americans to see. You can 
ask brother Azzam about the channel that you should send the tape to and let me know your opinion 
and his. 
 
I also think that you should write to ‘Abd-al-Bari ‘Atwan and Robert Fisk and tell them that the tenth 
anniversary is coming and it is the harvest of a fierce war between al-Mujahidin and America. This is a 
chance to explain our motives for continuing the war. The wise people would tell you to give people 
their rights in order to be able to focus on other vital issues such as global warming. They have the 
option to stop the war, but we do not have any option, except to defend our nation. This is a conflict 
between the biggest cultures in the world at a time when the climate is changing rapidly.  
 
Tell them that we suggest that they make a documentary on this anniversary and we will provide them 
with printed, audio, and video materials. 
 
Page: 9 
 
Please have them give us their video material and the names of specialists that they will use in order for 
us to establish a vision for the film and to be able to clarify the events. We should shed light on the fact 
that In some past documentaries on a-Jazirah, some specialists confirmed that the events of 9/11 are 
the main reasons for the financial crisis that America suffers from. 
 
-Regarding what the brothers in al-Sahab-Urdu mentioned in the statement on the floods, I am in 
support of giving advice and constructive criticism even when it is directed at me, for this is the duty of 
Muslims. Thank you for letting me know what the brothers wrote. 
 

SOCOM-2012-0000015-HTI also need you to read the statement and read the comments that the brothers added, but pay 
attention to the following: 
 
A- All talk about climate change and the catastrophes that were caused by it. After the Copenhagen 
conference, they stated that the main reason for these catastrophes is the sins. 
 
B- The attack was not directed at the victims who lost their children and money. 
 
C- We dealt with relief organization during the Afghani Jihad and we have never seen what the brother 
mentioned. I am not saying that it did not happen, but I think that the brother is exaggerating. I called 
on Muslims to establish an organization that would be guided by the principles of Islam. As Muslims, it is 
our duty to save those Muslims. 
 
D- Reminding the people of Pakistan to repent and return to God. This is an issue that I wanted to talk 
about. During those events, I was thinking these floods were caused by sins, but I did not say  it because I 
wanted to be sensitive to the fact that some parents were able to save two children and watched their 
third drown. For that reason I wanted to talk about helping those who are in need.  
 
Page: 10 
 
One of the main criticisms toward the brothers is that the brothers were saying that floods were caused 
by sins. 
 
The Prophet never told anyone that they are in pain or crisis because of their sins, but he did call on 
them to join Islam. That was the case of the Jewish man with the sick child, who the prophet invited to 
Islam, but did not tell him that his son was sick because he was not a believer. 
 
E- Regarding the talk about a network of pipelines and wells in the Gulf especially in the land of the two 
sanctuaries (TN: Saudi Arabia), the reality is that water is getting drained by agriculture and most 
countries are getting their water from a few water desalinization stations on the gulf. Whenever a war 
starts in the region and some oil tankers gets attacked, the oil will get in the water and pollute it. Also if 
the stations themselves get attacked, 20 million Muslims will be at risk of dying out of thirst. You know 
that rebuilding a damaged station would take a long time. For that reason, I highlighted this issue so that 
people can take some steps on their own. The presence of apostate regimes should not keep us from 
alerting Muslims because they could be harmed. For example, If we know that the high dam in Egypt is 
about to crumble, we should inform the millions of Muslims of this danger. It is our duty to support and 
save the Muslims whenever we can. 
 
You know that prophet Yousuf warned the people of Egypt of the deadly famine that was coming at 
them and he saved them from it. 
 
You also know, that a statement should not be taken out of context s and no statement is independent 
of what is before it and what is after it. In summary, talking to the Muslims about repenting and 
abandoning sin is a duty, but the statement was not directed toward the victims of the flooding. Please 
study the matter and let me know what you find. 
 
Page: 11 
 

SOCOM-2012-0000015-HT-Enclosed are the letters to Shaykh Abu-Muhammad and to brother Abu-Mus’ab ‘Abd-al-Wadud. Please 
give these letters to them. 
 
-I want the brothers in Islamic Maghreb to know that Planting trees helps al-Mujahidin and gives them 
cover. Planting trees is not expensive and it should be done immediately after rain. They should ask 
people to keep animals and livestock away from them. Trees would give al-Mujahidin the freedom to 
move around especially if the enemy sends spying aircrafts to the area.  
 
It is best if they can get the trees from a plantations or they can even create their own plantation.  
 
-Please send me the America Statement by Shaykh Abu-Muhammad. Also, please send him a copy of the 
letter of Sahib al-Tayyib to me and a copy of my letter to him. Also, please send me a copy of my letter 
to brother ‘Abd-al-Wadud in the exact format that you will send it to him in. 
 
-Please send to the brothers in Algeria the file that was written by Shaykh Bashir al-Madani about the 
Islamic Maghreb and which I sent to you in my previous letter. Ask him for his comments on it and see if 
he has as any information on this issue. 
 
-Please let me know regarding what you mentioned in the past about arranging a direct way to deliver 
information to the brothers in the media. 
 
-Al-Jazirah mentioned that some newspapers reported that one of the methods that al-Qa’ida uses to 
kill Americans is to put razors (TN: plow) on a truck and the driver pushes it to between them. Please let 
me know if this accurate and let me know the source of it.  
 
Page: 12 
 
-Regarding the separation of Southern Sudan, I am thinking about what you said and perhaps we will 
know something about it in the coming days through the media. 
 
-As for what you said about the chaos, I am not in favor of it and if we were together you would know 
that you and I are in agreement on this. I might write to you about this in details. 
 
-Enclosed is a special chip for the media. It contains Statement to the American People. With it is also a 
letter from my son Khalid to the brothers at the media. It is important to have it and the statement 
delivered to them. Tell the brothers that this statement should be broadcasted before the American 
congressional election. Also, a copy of the statement should be given to the correspondent of al-Jazirah-
English. Also, another copy of it should be given to an American news agency. Tell the three channels 
that we want to broadcast the statement on 29 October. If the channels do not broadcast the 
statements, the brothers should be ready to broadcast it on the internet on 30 October. 
 
-Regarding what you mentioned about informing the middle-man that you received the money that he 
sent, it is OK to do that if you write on a very small piece of paper that can be folded very tightly so that 
it would not get noticed. 
 
-In your letter, you mentioned that you did not receive the chip. This true, we did not send it because of 
a problem with it and due to the shortage on time, I was not able to change the letter. I apologize. 
 

SOCOM-2012-0000015-HT-Enclosed is the article attributed to our brother Sayf al-‘Adl. 
 
-Regarding the money, I like for them to be in Euros. I do not see a problem in sending them all at once. 
 
Page: 13 
 
Finally, let me know how the widows and the orphans are doing. Also, please let me know how the 
children of Al-Jufi (may God rest his soul) are doing. Please make sure to keep the children and all the 
families away from the areas that are being photographed and bombed.  
 
I pray to God almighty to protect you and protect all the brothers around you. May he grant you 
success. 
 
God’s peace mercy and blessings be upon you.  
 
Your brother,  Zamray 
21 October 2010 
   

SOCOM-2012-0000015-HT