Page 1 

 
 

In the name of Allah the most merciful the most gracious  

Our honorable Sheikh, may Allah‟s mercy and peace and blessings 

be upon you… 

I ask our mighty God that you are in good health and I hope that 

God grants you success and victory and support. 

Furthermore: 

- With regards to the lists and suggested classification, and in 

relation to the scholars (associated with knowledge), we did 

send to you our opinion and the opinion of the brothers in the 

“legitimate council.” In summary, we don‟t favor the idea of 

classifications and lists with regards to the ones “associated 

with knowledge,” because we are afraid of limitations and 

mistrust and so on. And we do see the issue to be left as is. I, 

personally, and the brothers, share the same opinion with 

regards to increasing the criticism dose and revealing and 

exposing scholars and evildoers. I pray to God not to increase 

them (TN: scholars and evildoers), because with all thanks to 

Allah, we have (a group of brothers who speak in our minarets) 

the power and the credibility and trust and stability within the 

nation‟s masses, which qualifies them to say few of the harsh 

words which are accepted by them (TN: The nation‟s masses). 

Also, large numbers of the rotten ones who are associated with 

knowledge and Da‟wa are visible to the point that we can talk 

with confidence about them and reveal their defects, etc. 

The issue with regards to the ones associated with knowledge and 

Da‟wa has more sensitivity than other issues. 

But, with regards to the educated and writers and thinkers and 

infidel reports and the masters of pen and paper who fight 

against God and the prophet and the companions, those we agree 

on publishing their lists and classifications. At the beginning, 

it would include a group of the “rotten heads” with addition to 

a profile on each person and personal photo if possible, and 

then we will publish it with God‟s help.  

 
 

SOCOM-2012-0000012-HT 
 

I did request from our brothers in the Jihadi media net to begin 

preparing these lists and folders and information so that it can 

be useful to us, and God is the one who grants success.   

And with regards to the discussion about “Al Rafidah” (TN: the 

rejecters, or Shiites) and their danger, and the danger of the 

Iranian al-Safawi al-Majusi (TN: Safavids), the discussion that 

you sent us is pleasant and we are in the process of forwarding 

it (we might alter few of the statements, or add suitable ones) 

to the people of knowledge as suggested by you. With regards to 

Hamid Al-((„Ali)), it is an easy matter, it is not complicated 

for us to send it to him (God willing), but we also plan on 

sending it to other brothers, and God is the one who grants 

success.  

Of course, with regards to Hamid Al-„Ali and the individuals 

around him, we say, ”Don‟t advise an orphan how to cry.” They 

are concerned with the “Rafidah” (TN: Reference to Shiites) and 

their danger is of great interest; in fact, they are overstated. 

They used to write to us and blame us for being negligent with 

regards to the “Rafidi” (TN: Shi‟a) issue, and blame us for not 

envisioning the Iranian Rafidi danger and others, and they used 

to say, “The “Rafidi” danger is greater than the American 

danger!!” And so on… 

Either way, we will work hard to send your discussion to Sheikh 

Hamid. 

- With regards to the Iranian relationship and the problem with 

our detained brothers, we bring to you good news that they 

released a group of brothers in the last month (one group at a 

time), and all thanks to God the mighty. And the following 

individuals arrived to us: 

-  „Abd-al-Muhayman Al-((Masri) and his family. 

- Salim Al-Masri (from Jihad group) and his family. 

- Abu Suhayb Al-((Makki) (originally from Yemen; during the 

crusaders offensive he was accompanying Sheikh Aba Sulayman Al- 

Makki Al-((Harbi))), and his family.  

- Abu Suhayb Al-((Iraqi)), and his family. 

SOCOM-2012-0000012-HT 
 

- Al Zubair Al-((Maghribi)) (A brother who worked with the 

Libyan fighting group), and his family.  

- And on the way now (maybe he is in Quetta or close by, the 

important thing is that he crossed the Iranian borders, and asks 

God to keep him safe) Khalifah Al-Masri, and his family.  

Page 2 

And all thanks to God, the lord of both worlds. 

They did send a message with the coordinating brother (a brother 

from Baluchistan in Zahidan; he is the one who they hand over to 

the brother and then he sends them to us) that they are going to 

hand over the family of Azmarai soon or maybe within a week, 

that is what they told him, so that he may make preparations for 

their travel to us.  

They told him (TN: the brother from Baluchistan in Zahidan) the 

family (women, children, no men), that‟s what they told him…we 

ask God to ease their matter and to bring them safely, and to 

rescue everyone from the ones who are gone astray.  

From our side, we are ready to receive them and working on 

facilitating the matter, and God is the one who grants success.  

And what I mean is that they speeded up releasing the brothers 

during this period. And those brothers are mid-level brothers.  

And they leaked to a few of the brothers who were released that 

in the near future they are going to release more groups of 

brothers. God knows.  

And it is possible to include the following in the next group: 

Aba Hafs Al-((„Arab)), Aba Ziyad Al-Iraqi, Aba „Amru Al-Masri, 

and others… 

And we ask God for the release of the others (old ones and young 

ones)…Amen.  

And we think that our escalation efforts (which include 

political and media “verbal” and the threat which we sent to 

them, and the apprehension of their associate, the trade deputy 

in the consulate in Peshawar; and other things they saw from us, 

SOCOM-2012-0000012-HT 
 

brought fear to them), could be one of the reasons for a speedy 

process on their behalf.  

But, they (the criminals) did not send any messages to us, and 

they did not talk to any of the brothers about it. (TN: Could be 

reference to releasing the brothers) 

Of course, this is nothing strange coming from them; in fact, 

this is their mentality and method. They don‟t want to show that 

they are negotiating with us or reacting to our pressure, they 

just do these acts to appear as if it is one-sided and as a 

matter of initiative on their behalf. 

We ask God to repel their evil… Amen.  

- I did send to Aba Muhammad your forthcoming project about the 

economic crisis, and he responded by sending a few remarks, and 

I did see in his remarks plenty of similarities, including 

removing a few statements which we saw unsuitable…etc. 

Unfortunately, I think I misplaced his letter and I cannot find 

it right now.  

This is all I could think of, and may God bless you.  

- Also attached are a few text files from the net. And if we are 

able to, we will send you a hard disk which contains several 

useful subjects from the net. Can we send a hard disk to you? 

We ask God to care after you and support you…Amen  

And may peace and God‟s mercy and blessings be upon you... 

Your loved one 

„Atiyah  

Page 3 

Thursday 11 June 2009   

  

 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000012-HT 
 

 

 

  

SOCOM-2012-0000012-HT