 
 
To the good brother Hakimullah ((Mahsud)), the Emir of Tahrik-e 
Taliban in Pakistan (TN: TTP - Taliban Movement in Pakistan) 
 
Greetings, 
 
There are certain important issues that we like to bring to your 
attention: 
 
1: We have several important comments that cover the concept, 
approach, and behavior of the TTP in Pakistan, which we believe 
are passive behavior and clear legal and religious mistakes 
which might result in a negative deviation from the set path of 
the Jihadists Movement in Pakistan, which also are contrary to 
the objectives of Jihad and to the efforts exerted by us. Here 
are some facts to consider: 
 
2: Considering Hakimullah as the sole Emir for everyone to swear 
allegiance to, whoever oppose him and isn’t a member of the 
movement is an adulterer, the none differentiation between the 
Jihad Emirate and the Great Imam post, and neglecting the daily 
conditions of the Muslims; all of which according to the Shari’a 
(Muslim laws) are a misconception of the real situation, and may 
cause an inter-Mujahidin fighting. 
 
3: (Of the passive behavior is) killing more people, taking them 
as shields without basing their action on the Shari’a, killing 
the normal Muslims as a result of martyrdom operations that 
takes place in the marketplaces, mosques, roads, assembly 
places, and calling the Muslims apostates. 
 
4: The draft that was written by Hakimullah Mahsud is 
unacceptable and we don’t approve it because it contains 
political and Shari’a mistakes. We already sent our comments on 
this draft. 
 
5: We are sending the attached short list on what is acceptable 
and unacceptable on the subject of kidnapping and receiving 
money, and we hope that you and the Mujahidin in Pakistan will 
approve it. 
 
6: We want to make it clear to you that we, the al-Qa’ida is an 
Islamist Jihadist organization that is not restricted to a 
country or race, and that we in Afghanistan swore allegiance to 
the Emir Mullah Muhammad ((‘Umar)) who allowed us to carry 
Jihad. Those that call us as guests do that for political 

SOCOM-2012-0000007-HTreasons and don’t base this attribute on the Shari’a, and we ask 
you and all the Mujahidin not to use this attribute. 
 
7: We make it clear to you that the brother Badr ((Mansur)) is 
one of the soldiers of the Qa’idat al-Jihad Organization who 
swore allegiance to Shaykh Usamah ((Bin Laden)), is with us, 
under our command, the Emir of a of a company of ours. Badr 
Mansur and other members of our group are not to be approached 
to join another organization or to deploy to other locations. 
Good manners and group work mandate that such a request be 
presented to his Tanzim (TN: al-Qa’ida) Emir and superiors. 
 
8: We stress on the fact that real reform is the duty of all, 
and to succeed we should look for and correct our mistakes and 
take the advice of others. 
 
We hope that you will take the necessary action to correct your 
actions and avoid these grave mistakes; otherwise we have to 
take decisive actions from our end. 

 

We pray to God to grant us success, 
 
Regards, 
 
Mahmud al-Hasan ((‘Atiyatullah)) and ((Abu Yahya)) al-Libi 
 
27 Dhu al-Hijjah 1431 (3 December 2010) 
 
 

SOCOM-2012-0000007-HT