 

 

In the name of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful 
 
Praise God, He who promised and fulfilled, promised and forgave, 
and peace and prayer be upon the gentleman of the honorable, his 
perfect honored family and companions…… 
 
Honorable brother/ Azmarai, may God preserve you 
 
Peace, mercy of God and His blessing be upon you. I hope that 
you and those with you are in the best of condition. And may God 
gather us on what is pleasing and satisfying to Him ,from glory 
of the world and winning of the hereafter… 
 
Furthermore, these are some thoughts that I am adding to the 
letter which I previously had sent to you, last 12 of Dhul Al-
Hijja (TN: No year given, most recent would be 19 November 
2010): 
 
Concerning our friend’s letter (NFI) addressed to you; here is 
what I think. It is that those brothers might have sent the 
letter out of fear, too concerned about inflating the size and 
the growth of Al-Qa'ida, with God’s blessing and strength. In 
addition, they think that bearing the burden of this huge body 
is overburdening, confining their energy, and exposing them to 
problems with many other parties. Especially, they desire and 
wish to walk toward development and construction. Therefore, 
they are satisfied with keeping those who resort to them and not 
exceeding that. I am afraid that this kind of perception, if 
that is reality, will lead them to exercising pressure on us to 
not to say so-and-so, or disassociate from so-and-so, denounce 
your connections with so-and-so, or deny your ties with so-and-
so….etc. Thus, I see it to be very essential for Al-Qa’ida to 
confirm and declare its linkage with its branches, in order to 
become a reported fact, there is no use in denying it. 
Therefore, please reconsider your opinion not to declare the 
accession of the brothers of Somalia so as not to be pressured 
later on to announce our disassociation with them or with 
others…..And God is the conciliator to all the best….. 
 
There is another issue, which I would like you to look into 
carefully; it is concerning controlling the affairs in general, 
membership and the affiliation in particular. There is no secret 
to you that, in the past, there were a lot of advantages and 
faults. However, what I would like to emphasize in this letter 
is the issue of individuals, those who pledge allegiance, and 
the affiliates. Therefore, from the last experience it showed 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000006-HT 

 

that there were considerable variation between people and those 
individuals who pledged the allegiance. The problem is that Al-
Qa’ida has become a broad field; each can enter, (TN: unclear 
possibly, sufficient) to declare his allegiance, does not wait 
to see whether he was accepted or not, even though the pledge is 
a contract between contractors.  
 
In the last period, great figures with high quality have 
emerged, and also some figures have emerged did not benefit any 
groups by their affiliation, yet some kind of bragging and 
boasting appeared by joining Al-Qa’ida. And, the formulation of 
specific titles have been published by their owners in the 
network of information. This is a member of so-and-so, and that 
one is in charge of so-and-so, and this is straying from Al-
Qa’ida familiarity. Moreover, if it comes from godly 
individuals, then it will have some positive impact deep inside. 
So what do you think if it comes from those individuals who are 
not on the appropriate levels?  
 
In addition, in the last period, some figures have emerged 
collecting money in the name of Al-Qa’ida, and play at that… and 
I think you might have heard about the brothers of “Al-Zayat” 
(NFI) in general, some of them have abused the money to varying 
degrees. Anyways, the important thing, honorable sir, is that 
the issue needs to be controlled, to know who is member of Al-
Qa’ida, what his function is, what side he follows, what is the 
way to impeach him, so as not to increase the friends of desire 
and greed and seclude those friends of religion and morals. And 
if the shortfall had sneaked upon the first generation, despite 
being near to the vow during the prophecy period, don’t you 
think it will sneak upon us?  
 
Things were stable until our master 'Uthman (TN: Third Caliph) – 
may God be pleased with him – started bringing his close 
relatives to power, and the sedition that followed his death may 
God be pleased with him, lasted what God wanted for it to last. 
Then, when Muslims had recovered and things started settling 
down during the year of the “Group”; our master “Mu’awiyah” 
marched them in a satisfactory way, until he started seeking to 
extract the succession of the nation in order to attribute it to 
his son. Then the sedition of Husayn, may God be pleased with 
him, followed by the sedition of Zubayr’s son, may God be 
pleased with them both. Then sedition became widespread, the 
effect of which still exists to this day.  
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000006-HT 

 

Anyway honorable sir, the intention is that it is predictable, 
with God’s permission and blessing, achieving victory is near, 
and it follows the overflow of individuals, groups and their 
haste to pledge the allegiance. Therefore, starting from now 
please think about controlling the matter with a system that 
deals with people, each according to his religion, piety and 
contribution. And, governing the people with Shari'ah, which 
brings those who are moral and righteous closer to each other. 
Those who have groups established, nations, and whom victory 
descends upon, they fend off people of ambition and prejudice. 
God help us for all the best. 
 
A final personal request, which is, I am asking you to pray for 
me, and my family for health in my religion, the world, and good 
offspring. 
 
In conclusion, I am asking God to assume you in His care, 
preserve you, us, and all Muslims from all harm… 
 
And I entrust you in God, Whose deposits do not go to waste.  
 
Please destroy the letter after reading it, and may God reward 
you with the best. 
 
Peace 
 
Your beloved brother 
 
Muharram 06 (TN: No year given, most recent would be 13 December 
2010)  

 

SOCOM-2012-0000006-HT