 

 

Page 1 of 3 
 
In the Name of God… 
 
Henceforth… 
 
To Most Generous Brother Mukhtar Abu al-Zubayr (var. al-Zoubair) 
 
I hope that you receive this letter from me while you are fine 
and well with all the brothers and followers… 
 
Hereinafter… 
 
We received your generous letter and I was happy reading what 
this letter contained about most jihad groups having united to 
join you; also about certain issues which occurred, of which you 
debated two important issues: 1) the issue of declaring the 
“country” (meaning the Islamic emirate); and 2) the issue of 
unity with the brothers within the declaration of the “country.” 
 
I see that there should be a practical working emirate on the 
ground but without declaring it in the media or confirming it in 
any paperwork, in order to avoid these documents leaking out to 
the enemies – should it happen for any reason. 
 
This is my opinion, but you are there on the ground and you see 
all realities; whatever you see and witness live, the absent 
does not see. Therefore, you would balance out between the pros 
and cons on the issue of declaring or not declaring the 
establishment of the emirate; or you may balance things out on 
your side – as I see it – to make the declaration under the name 
of the Islamic Emirate of Somalia, with its named emir to be the 
Emir of the Islamic Emirate of Somalia. 
 
Now, in relation to the issue of unity, I see that this 
obligation should be carried out legitimately and through 
unannounced secret messaging, by spreading this matter among the 
people of Somalia, without any official declaration by any 
officers on our  
 
Page 2 of 3 
 
side or your side, that the unity has taken place. But there 
remains the situation of the brothers on your side and their 

 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000005-HT 

 

talking about their relationship with al-Qa'ida, if asked. It 
would be better for them to say that there is a relationship 
with al-Qa'ida which is simply a brotherly Islamic connection 
and nothing more, which would neither deny nor prove. 
 
And for the above matter, there are two reasons: 
 
The first: If the matter becomes declared and out in the open, 
it would have the enemies escalate their anger and mobilize 
against you; this is what happened to the brothers in Iraq or 
Algeria. It is true that the enemies will find out inevitably; 
this matter cannot be hidden, especially when people go around 
and spread this news. However, an official declaration remains 
to be the master for all proof. Also, there will be fields open 
to those who would like to provide rescue assistance to Muslims 
in Somalia, to deny this reality which is not based on 
definitive evidences. Therefore, such would minimize the 
restraints on Muslims in the region of the emirate and likewise 
on the emirate proper. 
 
The second: The matter is that some Muslims in Somalia are 
suffering from immense poverty and malnutrition, because of the 
continuity of wars in their country; I have a determined plan of 
action, using one of my sermons to press the merchants in the 
countries of the Arabian Peninsula to support pro-active and 
important developmental projects which are not expensive; we 
happened to have tried these in Sudan. Therefore, by not having 
the mujahidin openly allied with al-Qa'ida, it would strengthen 
those merchants who are willing to help the brothers in Somalia, 
and would keep people with the mujahidin. 
 
The above are some of my viewpoints about what you proposed in 
your loving letter, including the other issues which you had, 
which Shaykh Mahmud („Atiyah) will answer you about. 
 
And before closing: we pursue your news and victories through 
the media; May God reward you blessings for all your efforts and 
your jihad. 
 
Regarding your strike against the African Forces, you must 
review it enough to minimize the (damages) on Muslims from their 
onerous attacks against Bakarah Market.  
 
Page 3 of 3 
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000005-HT 

 

Maybe your operations against them (TN: African Forces) could be 
during their arrival to or departure from the airport and 
without conducting your operational attacks against their 
headquarters unless those operations were large or through 
underground tunnels helping you reach the heart of the camp; and 
with time, an external attack. Anyway, we hope that you review 
this matter and may God empower and bless you with accuracy 
against your target. 
 
In closing: I press upon you as much as I press upon myself to 
remain devout, patient, and persistent in upholding the high 
moral values which were upheld by an “Emir of reconciliation” 
toward his community, which is, with God's help, the dream of 
the Emir in his pardon, his justice, his patience, his good 
treatment of them, and his refusal to burden them with what they 
cannot not handle. 
 
I would like you to pass on my greetings to all those 
respectable mujahidin brothers on your side for whom we pray to 
God the Almighty to render them victorious against their enemies 
and to protect them from the wickedness of traitors. 
 
Our last supplications go to God, the Lord of the Universe, with 
prayers and peace unto our Prophet Muhammad, all his lineage and 
companions. 
 
Peace to you and the mercy and blessings of God 
 
Your Brother Zamaray 
 
Friday August 7 2010  
 
Attached is a book (titled) “Niqat al-„Irtikaz” (Fundamental 
Points) 
 
(TN: End of Letter) 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000005-HT