 
 

Page 1 
 
(TN: Religious opening, then:) 
 
Dear Brother Shaykh Mahmud, God protect him, 
Peace be with you, and God's mercy and blessings. 
I hope this letter finds you, your family and all the brothers 
well and in good health, and closest and most obedient to God 
Almighty. 
 
I begin this message with condolences for myself and you on the 
death of our dear brother Shaykh Sa'id, God rest his soul. May 
the Almighty honor him with what he desires, accept him as one 
of the martyrs, and count his forbearance and steadfastness 
among his good deeds. 
 
God bless him, he spent nearly three decades in the theater of 
Jihad aiding the religion of God. 
 
(TN: Rest of paragraph is a eulogy of the life and deeds of the 
above Shaykh Sa'id.) 
 
I also offer condolences on the deaths of our dear brothers Abu-
'Umar al-Baghdadi and Abu-Hamzah al-Muhajir and those who waged 
Jihad with them until they died. We ask God Almighty to 
compensate us for our hardship and bring some good from it for 
us, and that he  
 
Page 2 
 
accept them among the martyrs and let them dwell in Heaven, for 
He is most capable of that. 
 
(TN: Paragraph seeking God's protection and guidance for all the 
Mujahidin, then:) 
 
In keeping with the words of the Prophet on forbearance, and to 
fulfill our duties regardless of the hardship faced, I begin my 
words with you on Jihad activities in general. 
 
First, I wish to inform you that you have been appointed 
successor to the departed Shaykh Sa'id for a period of two years 
from the date on which you receive this letter. I ask Almighty 
God to help you carry out this responsibility well, and augment 
your success, forbearance, piety and good character which if the 
leader possesses, his followers will benefit all the more so. 

 
 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

As you well know, the best people are the ones most agreed on by 
the people, and the key attributes that bring people together 
and preserve their staying behind their leader are his kindness, 
forgiveness, sense of fairness, patience, and good rapport with 
him, as well as showing care for them and not tax them beyond 
their ability. 
 
What must always be in the forefront of our minds is: managing 
people at such times calls for even greater wisdom, kindness, 
forgiveness, patience and deliberation, and is a complex task by 
most any measure. 
 
Page 3 
 
But, to begin again talking about Jihad activities: 
 
We are now in a new phase of assessing Jihad activities and 
developing them beyond what they were in the past in two areas, 
military activity and media releases. Our work in these two 
areas is broad and sweeping, encompassing the headquarters and 
regional areas. 
 
I put before you some ideas in my mind that time has enabled me 
to, so we can brainstorm and improve on them, in addition to a 
document that was attached to your message under the name 
"attachment for Shaykh Mahmud," which contained some of what I 
had sent to Shaykh Sa'id, God rest his soul, about this new 
stage. 
 
Regarding military activities: 
 
The conditions that grew more serious after the attacks on New 
York and Washington and the Crusader campaign against 
Afghanistan filled Muslims with sympathy toward their fellow 
Mujahidin, as it became patently clear that the Mujahidin are 
the vanguard and standard-bearers of the Islamic community in 
fighting the Crusader-Zionist alliance that has caused the 
people to endure various forms of pain and degradation. 
 
One indication of that is the wide-scale spread of Jihadist 
ideology, especially on the Internet, and the tremendous number 
of young people who frequent the Jihadist websites—a major 
achievement for Jihad, through the grace of God, despite our 
enemies and their efforts. 
 
On the other hand, after the war expanded and the Mujahidin 
spread out into many regions, some of the brothers became 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

totally absorbed in fighting our local enemies, and more 
mistakes have  
 
Page 4 
 
been made due to miscalculations by the brothers planning the 
operations or something that arises before it is carried out, in 
addition to some who have expanded the "barricade argument" (TN: 
on whether it is acceptable to kill Muslims being used as human 
shields by the enemy) which has resulted in the killing of 
Muslims (we ask God to have mercy on them and forgive them, and 
compensate their families). I reckon that the barricade argument 
was been debated centuries ago amid circumstances different from 
those of today, and it needs to be revisited based on the 
modern-day context and clear boundaries established for all the 
brothers, so that no Muslims fall victim except when it is 
absolutely essential. 
 
Amongst the mistakes made were the killing of some, the Muslims 
did not understand the justification behind allowing their 
killing. As you may know, one of the principles of Shari'ah is 
to bring in the interests and repulse evil. This is what the 
Messenger of Allah, Peace and Prayers be upon him had done with 
the head of hypocrisy 'Abdallah Bin Abi; not to underestimate 
the fact that these issues, amongst others, led to the loss of 
the Muslims sympathetic approach towards the Mujahidin. What 
also led to the loss of the Mujahidin was exploitation of the 
foes to several of their mistakes and tainting their picture 
before the crowds of the nation; the purpose was to split them 
from their popular bases, and needless to say that this issue 
involving the loss of the nation's audience paralyzed the 
Jihadist movements. 
 
Here is an important issue that we should pay attention to; 
carrying out several attacks without exercising caution, which 
impacted the sympathy of the nation's crowds towards the 
Mujahidin. It would lead us to winning several battles while 
losing the war at the end. It requires an accurate criteria for 
the ramifications of any attack prior to carrying it out; also 
weighing the advantages and disadvantages, to then determine 
what would be the most likely to carry out. 
 
Page 5 
 
There is the need to collect anything within the capacity to 
collect - such as information, especially the Afghanistan 
commando operations carried out by the Mujahidin or others, the 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

Palestinian Liberation Organization; also to study the 
advantages and disadvantages as the study would include two 
aspects:  
 
The aspect of the operational steps required to ensure the 
success of the operation, or the hindrances leading to its 
failure, as well as the impact on the foe. 
 
The other aspect involves the impact on the nation's impression 
towards the Mujahidin and being sympathetic towards them. The 
operations that bear extreme negative impact on the partisans of 
the Jihad include targeting the apostates in mosques or nearby – 
such as the assassination attempt of Dustum during the holiday 
worship location, and the assassination of General Muhammad 
Yusuf in one of the Pakistani mosques. It is extremely sad for 
an individual to fall into the same mistake more than once.  
 
I would also like to seek your advice on an opinion as follows: 
whatever exceeds our capability or what we are unable to 
disburse on attacks inside America, as well as on the Jihad in 
open fronts, would be disbursed targeting American interests in 
non-Islamic countries first, such as South Korea. We shall avoid 
carrying out attacks in Islamic countries except for the 
countries that fell under invasion and direct occupation.  
 
There are two major reasons to avoid carrying out attacks in 
Islamic countries as follows: the first involves attacks amongst 
the Muslims which would increase the possibility of victims 
amongst them; even though the brothers were previously warned 
not to expand the shield issue (TN: possibly killing Muslims who 
are being used as human shields by the enemy), that was not made 
clear to them. The operational fact continues to expand in terms 
of the shield.  
 
Page 6 
 
Firstly, it holds us responsible before Allah, praise and glory 
be to him, while in reality it holds us responsible for the 
losses and damages in the call to Jihad. 
 
The second reason is the extremely great damage that impacts the 
brothers in the region where the work begins, following the 
alert of the state against the youths who are engaged in the 
Jihad work or even the preaching work. Tens of thousands are 
being arrested, similar to what happened in Egypt, and the 
arrest of thousands such as in the country of the two holy 
sanctuaries (TN: Saudi Arabia), while the issue is one involving 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

time. The fact requires that we maintain the attrition of the 
head of disbelief (TN: Kufar) and the life artery of these 
apostate organizations on open fronts without bearing additional 
losses on the Jihad; by that, eliminating the ruler's despotism 
with these large numbers of devoted youths and Muslim prisoners.  
 
When the global disbelief reaches the level of attrition, it 
would lead to its collapse; we would then engage in a conflict 
with the rulers, after they have been weakened following its 
weakness. We would then find the brothers there with their 
entire strength and energy.  
 
Some of the disadvantages in carrying out attacks against the 
Americans in Islamic countries, where the components for success 
had not been prepared and the removal of the ruler is in an 
effort for the Americans not to accuse it of failing, the regime 
shall have a huge reaction towards the Mujahidin; this would 
lead to defending themselves and avenging the regime. The 
brothers and the regime would then engage in a war which we did 
not begin against it, because the power of the brothers is not 
ready for it, as such it would be one result.  
 
The disadvantages in engaging as previously mentioned would 
change the general line – meaning to avoid wasting our energy 
with these regimes at this stage; that, in addition to losing 
the sympathy of the Muslims towards us.  
 
Page 7 
 
This is when we lose the perception of the Muslims towards us, 
which is that we are the ones defending the Muslims and fighting 
their biggest enemy, the Crusader Zionist alliance - without 
killing those that the general public consider Muslims. 
 
So, if we fight the rulers while being in this situation, and we 
do not respond other than with direct defense during their 
offense against us, and this issue is being repeated several 
times, it would appear that we are wronged and the rulers are 
the tyrants; it would increase the hatred of the people towards 
them and make them feel that the rulers did not defend our 
brothers in Palestine, Iraq and Afghanistan. They were not 
content with that, but they fought the Mujahidin that defend our 
people there.  
 
However, if we engage in a fight against the rulers outside the 
direct defense, we would have eliminated the damage the rulers 
would have carried out in their fight against us; the reason is 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

that it would reveal the truth, and the media shall demonstrate 
to the people that we are the ones fighting the government and 
killing the Muslims. Between the roar of the killing and the 
fight, the people shall forget who began the fight against the 
other – as such we shall lose the people and strengthen the 
stance of the government without cutting its hostility against 
us.  
 
What aids the success of our fight against the Americans in non-
Islamic countries and reducing its cost, is for limited groups, 
distanced from the Muslim and devout circles, to launch from 
countries with the Mujahidin presence without announcing their 
launching location; this is to avoid the reaction against the 
Mujahidin in that country. Given the potential for the foes to 
reveal that issue, it would be better for the training to be 
carried out and launched from the open fronts where naturally 
the foes would be exerting their utmost efforts.  
 
Page 8 
 
Amongst the opportunities to be exploited in targeting the 
Americans is the state of security laxity found in countries 
where we had not carried out any attacks.  
 
Given that the difference of the impact of attacks against the 
foes inside or outside of America is substantial, we need to 
confirm to the brothers that every effort that could be spent on 
attacks in America would not be spent outside of it.  
 
The overflow of the work (TN: meaning attacks) outside of 
America and the work in non-Islamic countries could be spent in 
targeting the U.S. interests in the Islamic countries where we 
have no bases or partisans or Jihadist Islamic groups that could 
be threatened by danger. The Islamic groups there would express 
their stance against us and renounce us – a fact that would 
prevent the regime from retaliating against them following our 
attacks. The condition is to be extremely cautious and take 
necessary measures to avoid misleading the Muslims in these 
operations.  
 
With respect to the media publications, I would say:  
It is important for you to focus a portion of your interest on 
the Mujahidin publications; provide them with advice and 
guidance to avoid the mistakes that would impact either the 
reputation of the Mujahidin and the sympathy of the nation's 
masses or that would impact the mind and the character of the 
youths - who rely mainly in their culture on the publications 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

issued by the Mujahidin and their partisans. Needless to say, 
the substantial damages that this fact would have and the loss 
of great opportunities from a proper care and valuable guidance 
to millions of youths who listen to what the Mujahidin have to 
say in their lectures, movies and writings.  
 
Page 9 
 
Based upon the aforementioned: I request that you prepare a 
memorandum that would include general guidelines on how the 
Mujahidin publications should be; focus on the basics and the 
Shari'ah literature (TN: rules) such as violation of the Muslim 
blood and their honor, as well as the importance in committing 
to the Hadith of the messenger of Allah, peace and prayers be 
upon him (not he who believes in stabbing, in blasphemy, the 
obscene, and the disgusting) as narrated by al-Bukhari.  
 
Once the memorandum is prepared, we shall discuss it and send it 
to all the regions, along with sending the general policy in the 
military work. We shall then inform you of the committee that we 
are in the process of forming (I sent its formation to Shaykh 
Sa'id – May God have mercy on him); that committee will have the 
privilege of reviewing and postponing any publications assessed 
to be outside the general policy that we sought to keep in 
conformity with the Shari'ah teachings and which, God willing, 
would achieve the interest of Islam and the Muslims.  
 
We ask every emir in the regions to be extremely keen and 
focused on controlling the military work and not to expand the 
barricade, due to the several attacks carried out by the 
Mujahidin whereby several Muslims had fallen; we could have 
reached the target without injuring the Muslims with some effort 
and deliberation. Also the need to cancel other attacks due to 
the possible and unnecessary civilian casualties – for example, 
the attacks targeting several infidel Imams during their visits 
to public locations where most of the Muslims are located, as 
they should be targeted away from the Muslims.  
 
Making these mistakes is a great issue; needless to say, the 
greatness of the Muslim blood violation in addition to the 
damage impacting the Jihad. As a result, the alienation of most 
of the nation from the Mujahidin.  
 
Page 10 
 
For the brothers in all the regions to apologize and be held 
responsible for what happened. They would be questioned about 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

the mistake causing the flaw that occurred and about the 
measures to be taken to avoid repeating the same mistakes.  
 
With respect to the human error outside the human will, as it is 
repeated in wars, the need to apologize for these errors and be 
held responsible, as the aspects of the flaw would be explained. 
Perhaps some of those killed and who were killed mistakenly were 
amongst the immoral; there is no need to reveal their immorality 
while the people are wounded and the foes are keen in 
demonstrating our indifference about them.  
 
Should some of the brothers in the regions fail to carry out 
their duties in this respect, we should then assume the 
responsibility and apologize for what had happened.  
 
The need to confirm to all the Mujahidin brothers the importance 
of clarity, honesty, loyalty and promises and be cautious of the 
betrayal. 
 
The emirs in the regions would also be requested to task one of 
the qualified brothers with them, to follow up on the media 
section from all aspects as mentioned in the memorandum: from a 
Shari'ah standpoint - care for the general taste of the nation's 
crowds, so long as it does not conflict with the Shari'ah.  
 
The same brother would be requested to always seek the 
development of his aptitude and his knowledge in all arenas 
associated with his mission, such as: reading books on dealing 
with the people because he would be largely dealing with the 
brothers, reading books concerning the production.  
 
Page 11 
 
The purpose is for the Mujahidin publications to be a good 
potential for the competition and to gain the crowds. The main 
goal is to spread awareness amongst the people of the nation, to 
rescue them from the aberration of the rulers.  
 
He, in turn, would seek to improve the aptitude of the brothers 
contributing in the media section; he would also provide advice 
in general for those issuing the statements, lectures, books, 
articles and those who comment on the Jihad films. He would be 
appointed as the Jihadist media individual in this region, 
characterized by objectivity and accepted by the people of the 
nation.  
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

This brother would be in charge of the media as is the case in 
the regions – otherwise the position of the General Manager of 
the Media divisions would be updated in every region; no 
publications would be made unless he reviews them, to include 
the leadership speeches. He would have the right to stop any 
publication that includes a term considered outside the general 
policy, whether in the context or timing. The subject would be 
reviewed with the individual who issued it, and he would be 
informed of its conflict with the general policy; as well as the 
dispersion of the nation's views from the larger Mujahidin 
goals, such as the case of Palestine, while appointing the foe 
to defame the reputation of the Mujahidin – therefore the fear 
of the Mujahidin during this phase is substantial with respect 
to their conduct and expressions.  
 
Some of the examples to this was when the general populace were 
in the peak of dealing with the Freedom Fleet heading towards 
Gaza to break the blockade and deliver the civil relief to our 
people there, and at the time when the Jews stopped it with an 
armed force and killed several of those in it, activating Turkey 
in this respect. 
 
Page 12 
 
The Freedom Fleet attack dominated the media in a very large 
way, as the western politicians were forced to discuss it; they 
criticized the Israelis for publishing on one of the websites a 
speech for the deputy of Abu Basir in Yemen, our brother Sa'id 
al-Shahri. What was shown in the media was his speech concerning 
the arrest of one of our sisters in the country of the two holy 
sanctuaries and the Mujahidin demanding to carry out kidnappings 
against the westerners, the princes of Al Sa'ud (TN: the Sa'ud 
family) and the senior security employees in exchange for her 
release.  
 
Following the issuance of this speech, al-Arabiyah Television 
channel exploited it widely and focused on it. It made it the 
number one piece in its news reports and hosted men and youth 
from the general populace on the streets as they had claimed. 
That to include (TN: the hosting of) several ill-informed 
scholars and state men – no doubt they accept each other, 
especially those who ignore their status amongst the people; the 
purpose was to discuss the tape, showing honesty and each 
mentioning individually that the Mujahidin are not interested in 
the Palestinian cause, and the blockade of our brothers in Gaza 
- rather that their concern is to fight, corrupt and argue with 
the security men and not with the usurper Jews.  

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

 
No doubt, issuing this lecture was driven by jealousy of the 
blood and honor of the Muslims; however it was not in 
conformance with the events. The reason was because there were 
one and half million Muslims at that time under siege, and most 
of them were women and children. They have more than ten 
thousand prisoners with the Jews, many of whom are sisters and 
children in tragic circumstances. The issuance of this speech, 
especially at this time, conflicted with our policy of focusing 
on the bigger foe, and concealed our interest in the main issues 
that were the main reasons in initiating the Jihad.  
 
Page 13 
 
It announced to the people that we are in a fight and argument 
with the rulers to avenge our brothers, those that were killed 
and detained far from the cases and interests of the general 
nation, due to which it held our brothers responsible for the 
killing and imprisonment. It also gave the Muslims an impression 
of us that we were overcome by the region-like command or 
parties or both; they heard our brother talk about the sister 
from the Arab Peninsula and from al-Qa'ida organization, but 
they did not hear him talk about our sister in Palestine – this 
is contrary to our reality and our general policy, as it weakens 
our stance when we say that we are an international organization 
fighting for the liberation of Palestine and all of the Muslim 
countries to erect an Islamic caliphate that would rule 
according to the Shari'ah of Allah.  
 
This mistake was repeated, in a statement in which the brothers 
in Yemen adopted the big operation, the operation of 'Umar al-
Faruq – May God release him when they said, it was a reaction to 
the U.S. bombing of al-Mahfad; linking this large operation with 
other than the Palestinian cause covers some of the stances that 
show the victory of the brothers in Yemen for the Palestinian 
cause. That, in addition to their absorption on a daily basis in 
the fight against the Yemeni government and the strong focus on 
the key figures of the Peninsula rulers in their lectures; it 
drew the people's attention, that the first and biggest foe of 
the Mujahidin in the Arab Peninsula are the rulers of Yemen and 
the country of the two holy sanctuaries.  
 
This was repeated in the comments of the brothers concerning the 
attack of our brother Humam al-Balawi, may God have mercy on 
him, when they mentioned it was a revenge for the murder of 
Mahsud, may God have mercy on him. It was necessary to discuss 
Palestine first.  

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

 
Page 14 
 
In an effort to avoid such stances the international perception 
and the general policy should be present and clear in our minds; 
as such we would avoid being distracted or absorbed in its 
expansion at the expense of what is more of a priority and 
importance.  
 
The priorities in the preaching work are to clarify the meaning 
of the term al-Tawhid (TN: monotheism) and its requirements and 
to warn the people from falling in its contradictions; that, to 
include the instigation of the Jihad against the Crusader 
Zionist alliance.  
 
The priority in the military work is to focus and provide the 
lion's share for the head of international disbelief or to focus 
on the apostate and excessively talk about them which the people 
of the nation do not understand; consequently they would not 
react to it, as many of them would repel from it. This would 
make us the splinter in an environment that does not harbor the 
Jihadist movement, and does not provide us with support to 
pursue the Jihad and its continuity.  
 
I believe there is a need to look into publishing pictures of 
the apostates' killing those of the apostate organizations who 
deal with the Americans against the Muslims.  
 
Once the brothers in the regions are committed to the 
memorandum, it would be advisable for you and for Shaykh Abu 
Yahya to write some articles and provide advice to those working 
in the Jihad media in general to include the author partisans to 
the Mujahidin on the internet. Shaykh Yunis wrote to me about 
the importance of preparing a memorandum indicating our stance 
on the Takfir issue without the Shari'ah criteria. I wrote to 
him and told him I would send him what you had sent. I had 
attached it in the last letter, and asked him to follow up on 
sending his comments to you so you could write it in your style, 
in light of the fact that the foes know his true personality 
through the prisoners who also recognize his style when they 
peruse his articles on the internet.  
 
Page 15 
 
Before concluding the discussion concerning the media 
publications, I would say:  
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

We are in need of an advisory reading, with constructive 
criticism to our entire policy and publications at the center 
and in the regions internally; as such have two available 
brothers ready for this mission. 
 
From abroad, seek safe routes to achieve a contact with one of 
the knowledge seekers so long as he is credible and trusted; 
inform him that we are in a new phase of amendment and 
development and require an advisory reading and development of 
our entire policy and publication at the center and in the 
regions. The purpose is to amend our mistakes and develop our 
Jihadist work according to their suggestions and opinions, 
especially in corresponding with the masses of the nation in 
context and shape.  
 
Taking into consideration the importance not to publish it and 
the importance of the secrecy in all of that, as we ask God to 
grant us success.  
 
Important comment: After you provide me with your opinions and 
suggestions, and after we consult amongst each other, we need to 
send what we agree upon to the brothers, the leaders of the 
regions and ask them for their responses to what we would be 
sending them.  
 
I intend to issue a statement, in which I would discuss starting 
a new phase to amend what we have issued – as such we would 
regain the trust of a large portion of those who had lost their 
trust in the Mujahidin; we would increase the lines of 
communication between the Mujahidin and their nation.  
 
This would require, prior to telling and reassuring the people 
that the intent from all aspects would have become clear to the 
brothers in the center and in the regions – that it would be 
established and implemented on the ground; the purpose is not to 
contradict our statements with some of our conduct. First, for 
all the brothers contributing in the media of al-Qa'ida in the 
center, the need to commit to avoiding everything that would 
have a negative impact on the perception of the nation towards 
the Mujahidin; also ensure everything possible that would bring 
the Mujahidin and their nation closer.  
 
Page 16 
 
The basis for that is to take into consideration the general 
opinion or the general taste within the Islamic Shari'ah 
criteria; it is a very important issue that the Messenger of 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

Allah, peace and prayers be upon him had done – as was said in 
the Hadith (if your people were not newly ignorant, the Ka'bah 
would not have been destroyed and would only have two gates) 
narrated by al-Tarmazi.  
 
The issues taking over the public opinion are the alienation 
from harshness and leaning towards friendliness and objectivity; 
also repulsion from repetition in lectures unless it is 
absolutely necessary.  
 
It is therefore necessary to focus on expansion, and increase 
the knowledge in factual jurisprudence and developments of the 
events; the purpose is for our lecture to touch the crowds of 
the nation and their aspirations, while treating the important 
doctrinal issues.  
 
In summary: committing to the general lines, designed according 
to the Shari'ah policy in our Jihadist operations and our media 
publications is an extremely important issue; it will achieve, 
God willing, great gains for the Jihadist movement – most 
importantly gain the crowds of the nation, correct the wrong 
impressions in the minds of the Mujahidin. Additionally, an 
increase in the attrition of the head of disbelief, because the 
plan was to focus more on it.  
 
I add here two issues that appear important to me in the 
stability of the Jihadist work and its progress. I would like 
for you to research it amongst you- first: the need to circulate 
a new administration arrangement, sent to all the regions after 
we discuss it amongst us, and which would include the following 
points:  
 
Page 17 
 
A. If any contingency situation results in the absence of the 
Emir from his leadership of the Mujahidin, the Deputy Emir will 
automatically and temporarily take on the responsibility of 
managing the affairs of the Mujahidin for several days, with his 
title being "Acting Emir". The Mujahidin in his territory will 
be informed of this, and he is not to be called "The Emir". 
Furthermore, he will not be announced in the meeting except 
after consulting with the brothers and gaining their agreement 
to that or some other action. 
 
Consultation among brothers in any region will take place 
internally, though they will also consult with "Central al-
Qa'ida). This term was coined in the media to distinguish 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

between al-Qa'ida in Afghanistan and Pakistan and al-Qa'ida in 
the other territories. In my opinion, there is no problem with 
using this term in principle in order to clarify the intended 
meaning. 
 
B. The term of an Emir chosen by the influential people in each 
territory, in consultation with the central group, shall be two 
years, with the potential to be renewed. If there is delay in 
consulting with the central group due to a difficulty in 
communications, the term shall be one year, also with the 
potential to be renewed. It shall be taken into consideration 
that this term is most similar to the leadership of a Wali (TN: 
governor) in Muslim territories during the time of the 
caliphate, and is not like the grand imamate.  
 
C. The Shura council in each territory will provide the Emir 
with recommendations and will write an annual report to be sent 
to the central group detailing the local situation, to include 
the progress of the local Emir in his activity and his dealings 
with the Mujahidin. 
 
Page 18 
 
I also think that if the brothers in any territory deem to 
elevate the position of any of the brothers to a position of 
importance, such as First Deputy or Second Deputy, then that 
should be done in consultation with the central group. If there 
is a problem with communications, then the matter will be 
temporary until consultation can be completed. 
 
This is with the stipulation that the CV of the brothers 
nominated to the position is sent. 
 
Second: Attention should be paid to creating command structures 
and devising plans to develop and refine the energies called 
upon for Jihad. The Muslim Nation, in general, suffers from a 
lack of qualified leadership, and it comes as no surprise to you 
that the fields of Jihad are where leaders are made. 
 
Finally: I want you to inform me of your recommendations that 
will help with elevating the level of activity on all fronts and 
in all territories. You no doubt understand the great importance 
of the progress of our work in the territories through general 
policies that are controlled by Islamic law in order to achieve 
our interests and reject corruption.  
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

I reviewed your opinions regarding the issue of establishing an 
Islamic state before the elements of success have been completed 
and the issue of escalation in Yemen. I wanted to share with you 
my opinion in these two matters in order to establish a fruitful 
and constructive discussion, God willing. 
 
However, talking about them brings sorrow, and I am compelled to 
talk at length about them and their importance and the risks in 
them. If I am unable to give these matters their due time within 
these pages, then perhaps I can finish the discussion in the 
next message. I'll begin with the matter of escalation in Yemen. 
To begin I would say that Yemen is the Arab country most suited 
to the establishment of an Islamic state, but this does not mean 
that the necessary fundamental elements for  
 
Page 19 
 
success for such a project have yet been realized. Henceforth, 
we must increase our efforts to preserve Yemen and not drag it 
into a war before the necessary preparations are made on a 
number of important fronts. I anticipate that we will not 
escalate in Yemen for the following reasons: 
 
A. Escalation in Yemen would siphon off a large portion of the 
energy of the Mujahidin without doing the same to the head of 
the infidels (America) directly. Thus, the majority of harm 
would be inflicted on the Mujahidin in general, and would impact 
the greater war between the infidels and Islam. Yemen represents 
an important center of gravity in supporting fronts with men, 
and if war broke out there, then the supply lines to other 
fronts would be disrupted or weakened. 
 
Furthermore, Yemen represents a focal point in terms of 
supplies, as a reserve force for the Mujahidin, and it has 
become a proven fact in military science that in a war between 
two sides, neither side should commit all its forces to the 
fight; rather, it is important for a force to remain as a fork 
with several prongs in reserve. It seems to me at this point 
that Yemen remains a force of supplies and reserves for the 
Mujahidin at the open fronts, and a powerful tool to restore the 
caliphate when circumstances are conducive to doing so. Thus 
far, circumstances are not yet suited to opening up a front in 
Yemen that would bring about the desired results. The Islamic 
nation, as an army, has several battalions. So when the enemy's 
tanks advance, we need to advance anti-tank battalions, and when 
the enemy's aircraft conduct raids, our anti-aircraft battalions 
must show themselves, all the while camouflaging and concealing 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

our other battalions in order to protect them from being bombed, 
so as to not lose them. 
 
Page 20 
 
So this is the state of things in our battle with the infidels 
of the world. We want to cause him to only bleed in this 
mission, while preserving the other armies as a reserve force 
that enters the battlefield at the appropriate time. 
 
B. The emergence of a force in control of the Mujahidin in Yemen 
is a matter that provokes our enemies internationally and 
locally and puts them on a great state of alert, which is quite 
different from the emergence of the strength of the Mujahidin in 
any nation not in the heart of the Islamic world, despite the 
enemy's increased alert posture at the appearance of the 
Mujahidin in any location. 
 
Thus, their situation in Yemen would be like that of anyone 
fighting for his life, for Yemen is the launching point toward 
all other oil nations. Control of these nations means control of 
the world, so they are willing to die and make every effort to 
break the backs of the Mujahidin there. At the same time, the 
capabilities of our brothers there are not yet such that they 
can enter this sort of struggle, neither in terms of their 
administration or their financial resources. The finances do not 
permit them to provide the basic life support services to 
whomever would take on the burden, whether they want to or not, 
particularly since Yemen is suffering from a food and health 
services crisis even before entering into a war, and all that 
this implies. The issue of providing for basic needs is a matter 
that must be taken into consideration before taking control of 
nations or cities. If a controlling force, that enjoys the 
support of the majority where it has taken control, fails to 
provide for the basic needs of the people, it will lose their 
support and will find itself in a difficult position that will 
grow increasingly difficult with each passing day. People will 
not bear seeing their children die as a consequence of a lack of 
food or medicine. This is in addition to providing necessities 
to fighters and what we call logistical support. 
 
Page 21 
 
I would add that the initiative is in our hands, and we have the 
room to look for the appropriate time to begin Jihad in Yemen. 
In the words of Almighty God, "Against them make ready your 
strength to the utmost of your power, including steeds of war, 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

to strike terror into (the hearts of) the enemies, of God and 
your enemies, and others besides, whom ye may not know, but whom 
God doth know. Whatever ye shall spend in the cause of God, 
shall be repaid unto you, and ye shall not be treated unjustly." 
(60). We still have a large force we are able to gather and 
prepare, and if we suppose that the suitable conditions for 
establishing an Islamic state in Yemen that can be preserved are 
realized in three years, for example, then beginning Jihad 
before that time is unwise because the forces would be 
squandered and it would take longer to prepare, all while not 
achieving their primary goal, which is to establish the 
religion. 
 
It is our desire, and the desire of the brothers in Yemen, to 
establish the religion and restore the caliphate, to include all 
the countries of the Islamic world. God willing, that will be 
followed by other conquests that we are able to achieve by 
continuing to wage Jihad at the fronts that are prepared for 
combat, while holding off at the fronts that are not yet 
prepared, such as Yemen, until they become prepared and until 
combat at those fronts will produce results that aid in 
establishing a guided caliphate, God willing. What demonstrates 
the dangers in beginning a fight before the necessary elements 
have been put in place is the failure of the coup attempted by 
the socialists in Yemen, which was due to their haste in 
beginning before putting in place the elements necessary to 
success. These included securing the loyalty of the surrounding 
tribes and other such items, despite the fact that what pushed 
them to do this was the increase in assassinations among their 
cadre, be it assassination by way of murder at the hands of the 
Mujahidin or the assassination by granting money from the 
president, which drew them to him. 
 
As you know, the duty of Jihad does not mean establishing it in 
every territory, including the territories in which the elements 
of success have not been achieved. Jihad is a means to establish 
the religion, and it might 
 
Page 22 
 
be brought down by an inability to do so without being brought 
down by the preparation for it. This would be the case if most 
of those with experience in Jihad decided that the elements 
necessary for success had not been achieved such that the 
desired results could be realized.  
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

By God's grace, Jihad is underway at several fronts, and these 
are sufficient, by His will and His glory, as well as by the 
steadfastness of the Mujahidin there, to perform the function of 
bleeding the head of the infidels, America, such that it is 
defeated, God willing. Then, the Islamic Nation will be able to 
expel that which has stricken it with weakness, servility, and 
degradation. 
 
The interest of the Mujahidin in knowing that which effects the 
enlightenment of the people of the Islamic Nation and is met 
with acceptance by the people is sufficient, God willing, to 
rescue the nation from the oppression of the ignorant and the 
misled. 
 
Thus, the plague that exists in the nations of Muslims has two 
causes: The first is the presence of American hegemony and the 
second is the presence of rulers that have abandoned Islamic law 
and who identify with the hegemony, serving its interests in 
exchange for securing their own interests. The only way for us 
to establish the religion and alleviate the plague which was 
befallen Muslims is to remove this hegemony which has beset upon 
the nations and worshippers and which transforms them, such that 
no regime that rules on the basis of Islamic law remains. The 
way to remove this hegemony is to continue our direct attrition 
against the American enemy until it is broken and is too weak to 
interfere in the matters of the Islamic world. 
 
After this phase comes the phase in which the second cause - 
rulers who have abandoned Islamic law - are toppled, and this 
will be followed by the phase in which God's religion is 
established and Islamic law rules.  
 
The focus must be on actions that contribute to the intent of 
bleeding the American enemy. As for actions that do not 
contribute to the intent of bleeding the great enemy, many of 
them  
 
Page 23 
 
dilute our efforts and take from our energy. The effect of this 
on the greater war in general is clear, as is the resulting 
delay in the phases leading to the establishment of an Islamic 
caliphate, God willing. 
 
Based on this, there is no overriding pressure or great need to 
exhaust and deplete the front in Yemen before the elements of 
success there have been achieved. Putting reserve forces and 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

supply lines for the Mujahidin into the quagmire is a difficult 
thing, for the reasons I've already mentioned, including that 
the scope of the struggle will be greater than the capabilities 
in a number of ways. 
 
So it seems to me that halting the escalation in Yemen is in the 
general interest of the Mujahidin and is similar in many ways to 
what took place in the Battle of Mu'tah, as the Prophet 
described it, and the actions of Khalid Bin al-Walid. He 
achieved victory when he withdrew the army; the victory in the 
circumstances of that battle came in his rescuing the companions 
(TN: of the Prophet Muhammad) from the destruction of their army 
in the battle. Their army was completely outnumbered by the 
Roman army, and there were no elements in place for success, and 
they weren't on the verge of a complete disaster. They had the 
ability to go and regroup, much like we do now. They even had 
the ultimate Prophet, who eventually praised them, telling them 
they were fighters, not fleers.  
 
As for the matter of establishing the state before putting in 
place the elements necessary for success: 
 
A. It seems to me that being deliberate in this matter is a good 
thing, and to explain further, establishing the state before the 
elements necessary for success are put in place most often will 
lead to aborting the effort wherever it takes place, because 
establishing a state and then toppling the state represents a 
burden that exceeds the energy of the people. 
 
Page 24 
 
Weighing people down with something that exceeds their energies 
is fraught with negative results and leads to the shock of Jihad 
for the people of a territory in which the movement is 
suppressed, and it may exceed them. This is true whether the 
movement was suppressed after establishing the state or while it 
seeks to do so, as was the case in Syria when the Muslim 
Brotherhood tried to begin their Jihad and establish an Islamic 
state before they were prepared to do so and before the elements 
necessary for success were in place. This led to a shock for the 
Muslims in Syria at the emergence of Jihad, and many people 
decided it was less harmful to remain with the current regime 
than what would happen to them if they took part in the Jihad. 
 
Following this shock, Jihad lost a generation of men who had 
been passionate about the victory of the religion, including men 
who had given their lives for this cause. The winds of Jihad 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

were still for nearly twenty years in Syria until a new 
generation came along that had not experienced that shock. The 
overwhelming majority of those who answered the call to Jihad in 
Afghanistan and Iraq were those who had not witnessed the Hamah 
experience and the murder committed by the regime there.  
 
B. Jihad as a means to bring down countries and to gain control 
of them does not require beginning such a plan based on the hope 
that people will fight to establish a nascent state. Instead, it 
requires close study and inspection and confirmation that the 
elements necessary to success are in place. And it requires 
searching for the appropriate time. So we cannot waste a golden 
opportunity, and we must not begin before the appropriate 
opportunity is at hand. A man might measure the results of 
establishing an Islamic state before toppling its enemies 
against the results of the fall of the Islamic emirate in 
Afghanistan, which we pray to God does not happen again. Such a 
comparison shows a big difference, due to a number of factors. 
The first factor is that the people of the Islamic world are 
divided into 
 
Page 25 
 
two groups, the Arabs and the non-Arabs. Given that the enemies 
have knowledge of and experience with the Arabs and their 
history, they have learned that Arabs have dangerous qualities 
that make them suitable to quickly carry out the call to Jihad, 
and that the Qur'an and the Hadith are sufficient to justify 
that. On top of that is the speed with which they comprehend the 
texts of these without the need for translation. Based on this 
knowledge, the enemies have focused the bulk of their campaign 
against the Islamic world on the Arabs, particularly in the 
destructive media bombardment against Arab culture and their 
characteristics. This all serves the interests of the west; 
sufficient proof of this lies in the fact that the first 
language in which BBC broadcasts are transmitted after English 
is Arabic. This, when Arabs represent 2.5% of the world's 
population, while other people, including China by itself, 
represent a fifth of the world's population. The same is true 
for the Indian sub-continent, which represents another fifth of 
the population, while the number of Muslims in India is greater 
than the number of all the Arab Muslims. It was possible for the 
voice of the British Empire to reach 40% of the world's 
population through just its broadcast, but their primary concern 
was with destroying the Arabs via the media. 
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

The second factor is the continued American occupation 
manifested in military forces on the ground. This is a very 
important factor in awakening people and inciting them to 
continue fighting, as opposed to the situation in countries in 
which the external enemy brings down the Islamic state 
established there without putting its military forces on the 
ground. Instead, they are satisfied to support the local or 
regional enemy, particularly if the country hasn't been 
destabilized by significant internal dispute, as is the case in 
Iraq.  
 
Page 26 
 
The third factor is that the Afghan people are religiously 
devout by nature and live spartan lives. They are extremely 
sensitive to the presence of foreigners in their country, where 
there are many primitive villages in the mountains and rural 
areas cut off from the cities. The residents in such areas are 
aware of their freedoms and their strength, and know they are 
far from the control of the security forces that are weak even 
in the major cities. 
 
These factors are important in completing the elements necessary 
for successfully establishing a Muslim state, but they do not 
apply to all countries in the region. The people in many of 
these countries are still not prepared to enter the fight 
against governments and to bring them down. Many people have no 
idea how they would respond, and those who do understand that or 
who want to do away with these governments for some other 
reason, such as poverty or administrative corruption, do not 
believe that the solution is to fight them and to bring them 
down, because America is the dominant force in the region and 
will bring down any state that is established after its 
representatives are toppled. 
 
In this phase, Afghanistan, Iraq, and Somalia are exceptions to 
the countries in the region. 
 
Here we have an important issue, which is that one of the most 
important factors that will aid in the success of Jihad and its 
continuation is calling on Muslims to fight the enemy whose 
hostility they know and whom they know it is permissible to 
fight against, as is the case with the American enemy. As for 
the local enemy, such as if the Yemenis were to begin a long 
battle against the security services, this is a matter that will 
weigh on the people. As time goes by, they will begin to feel 
that some of them have been killed and they will start to want 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

to stop the fighting. This would promote the ideology of secular 
governments that raise the motto of pleasing all sides. 
 
Page 27 
  
Our goal is not to expend our energy in Yemen, to use the 
greater part of our strength in supplies and reserves, and to 
wear down and ultimately topple an apostate regime, only to 
establish another apostate regime.  
 
This is on the assumption that the people would revolt with us 
to topple that regime. However, while it is the nature of tribes 
to be daring in fighting among themselves, they are cautious and 
hesitant to enter a struggle against a sizeable opponent. (They 
will do so only) after they make sure that the force and timing 
sufficiently predicts that the revolution has a good margin of 
success. This is when one of the most important factors for 
establishing a stable Muslim country in Yemen is dependent on 
substantial tribal support and adoption and gaining their trust 
so that they enter the struggle and contribute to establishing 
the government and protecting it. It is worth mentioning here 
that the entity that the tribes are going to confront in their 
fight will be just the Yemeni government, it will be 
international and regional apostasy. 
 
It is also worth mentioning that the situation on the ground 
imposes the importance of differentiating between the North and 
the South, as the situation in the South cannot wait any longer. 
This is due to the people's intense anger toward the government 
and the huge amount of injustice inflicted on the people by the 
government, in addition to the mobilization conducted by al-
Hirak. These two factors made large sectors of the people in the 
South dare to revolt, prepare for armed confrontation, and fight 
against the government. As for North Yemen, I see that it is in 
the same condition as the rest of the countries in the region, 
as far as the people not being ready to fight against the 
government. So I see that we do not seek a truce in the South, 
as it goes against the fabric of the people in their movement to 
lift off the injustice put upon them. It will lead to us losing 
most of the government opponents; we should not follow their 
lead, but we benefit from the tense atmosphere in spreading our 
call to Allah among the Muslim ranks in the South. 
 
Page 28 
 
This is because the current anger is led by al-Hirak, and it is 
allied to the United States and the Gulf states. Accordingly, 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

not declaring a truce does not mean that we escalate against the 
government in the South and enter into a fight against the 
military, as it would not bring the desired outcome. This is 
because the sons of the northern tribes will be targeted in the 
fight. The commoners in these tribes do not realize that the 
military are apostates. So the tribes will think that we 
increased the bloodshed, and people will talk among the tribes 
saying that al-Qa'ida kills a lot. This would distance many 
people from us and might lead to a tribal uprising to fight 
against us in revenge for their sons. This also means that we do 
not jump to establish an Islamic state in the South at the first 
chance of the government losing control in the South. The reason 
for this is what we mentioned earlier, that we are not yet ready 
to cover the people with the umbrella of Islamic rule. The 
reasons are that the people have needs and requirements, and the 
lack of these requirements is the main reason for their revolt 
against the ruler. We cannot provide for these needs in light of 
the battle and siege of the whole world against us. It is human 
nature that they will go with whoever better provides them with 
these needs and requirements. The animosity of the world and its 
siege against the Mujahidin is well known to the people, so no 
matter how much they love the Mujahidin, they will not stand 
beside them under these circumstances. 
 
It is apparent from this that most people in Yemen, if given a 
choice between a government formed by al-Qa'ida or a government 
formed directly or indirectly by any of the Gulf states - such 
as if they give support to 'Ali Salim al-Bayd or any other who 
has administrative ability - they will choose the government 
that is formed by the Gulf states, either in the North or the 
South. The simple reason for this is  
 
Page 29 
 
that they think that these are Muslim governments and that they 
have the ability to provide them the necessities of their 
livelihoods. These are the demands of the people. 
 
To stay away from wishful thinking and hope, we have to look at 
the people's revolution in the South like it is a boulder 
rolling down the side of a mountain. It is a benefit to whoever 
takes it; however, stopping it to our benefit is difficult, as 
it naturally will end up with the person who has the ability to 
control it, and who is at the current time, the Yemeni 
opposition, which is supported by the Gulf states. 
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

However, looking at the indications, it seems that at the time 
the US is weakening - and accordingly, its agents are weakening 
- the Mujahidin are preparing to cover the people with the 
umbrella of the Caliphate. We will be the prime choice nearest 
to them, as they are Muslims in Muslim countries, and it is 
natural for that environment to receive the Mujahidin to 
reestablish the Caliphate and rule with Allah's Shari'ah. This 
is what scares the adversaries more than the Mujahidin; they are 
scared of the rejectionists (TN: the Shi'a). 
 
Based on the above, we should not begin to attempt to establish 
a government in Yemen, even if the people revolted against 
government and toppled it, either in South Yemen or in all of 
Yemen. This is regardless of how bad the nominees to control 
that government are, because the outcome will be worse on Islam 
and Muslims if we start something that does not have all factors 
of success put together. This would put us in trouble with the 
people and put the Mujahidin forces in the sights of the enemy 
fire. This is because in the view of the rulers of the Land of 
the Holy (Mosques) (TN: Saudi Arabia), we are their worst 
enemies and our presence in Yemen threatens their royalty's 
existence, in addition to their abiding by the American wishes 
for them to fight us, so they will pump huge funds into 
recruiting the Yemeni tribes to kill us. 
 
Page 30 
 
They will win over the swords of the majority, which will put 
the Mujahidin force in Yemen under enemy fire and in a very 
serious situation. 
 
Miscellaneous Points:  
 
1- Please give me the news about the condition of the sons of 
our brother Shaykh Sa'id, Allah have mercy on his soul. (Tell 
me) how he was martyred and how the enemy discovered his 
location. I had been planning to mourn him and talk to the 
nation about him; however, I did not get a confirmation of the 
news from your side. 
 
Please relay my regards and condolences to Shaykh Abu Muhammad, 
and give me the news about his condition. For several months, I 
have been sending messages to him, and Shaykh Sa'id told me that 
he had not yet received a courier from him. It then became 
noticeable that he has not been heard in the media in recent 
times. I hope that the problem is something good, and I advise 
that he get a companion (TN: bodyguard) from the Arab brothers. 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

 
2- I had mentioned in several previous messages to Shaykh Sa'id, 
Allah have mercy on his soul, the importance of the exit from 
Waziristan of the brother leaders, especially the ones that have 
media exposure. I stress this matter to you and that you choose 
distant locations to which to move them, away from aircraft 
photography and bombardment, while taking all security 
precautions. Also work on bringing out the brothers who have 
distinguished talents after they have been battle hardened, 
either by exposure to a big battle or by staying at the front 
for approximately one month. 
 
Page 31 
 
3- It would be nice if you would send me the names of some who 
are qualified to be your deputy. 
 
4- It would be nice if you would nominate a brother to be 
responsible for the general duty of the external work in all the 
regions. If it is not possible to nominate someone for this, 
then you take over that responsibility. 
 
Knowing that Shaykh Yunis (Var: Younis) is the official 
responsible for external work in Africa and west Asia, please 
inform him of that. 
 
I sent a message in the past to Shaykh Sa'id and to you about 
the importance of external work, I hope it has reached you. In 
any case, I have attached it to your messages. 
 
5- It would be nice if you would nominate one of the qualified 
brothers to be responsible for a large operation in the US. 
 
6- It would be nice if you would pick a number of the brothers, 
not to exceed ten, and send them to their countries 
individually, without any of them knowing the others, to study 
aviation. It would be better if they are from the Gulf states, 
as study there is at the government's expense. They have to be 
picked with the utmost care and with very accurate 
specifications, one of which is that they are willing to conduct 
suicide actions and are prepared to do daring, important, and 
precise missions that we may ask of them in the future. 
 
Page 32 
 
So please pay top attention to this matter due to its utmost 
importance. Establish a mechanism to monitor and follow up on 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

the brothers going to study aviation so that we reduce the 
chances of them slackening from conducting Jihad. 
 
7- It would be nice if you would ask the brothers in all regions 
if they have a brother distinguished by his good manners, 
integrity, courage, and secretiveness, who can operate in the 
US. (He should be able to) live there, or it should be easy for 
him to travel there. They should tell us this without taking any 
action and also tell us whether or not he is willing to conduct 
a suicide operation. 
 
8- It would be nice if you would send the message to the 
brothers in all regions, without exception, that whoever has an 
operation outside the region where he is located must coordinate 
with you. This is so there will no conflicts between operations 
or failures where the brothers could be exposed or captured. 
 
9- It would be nice if you would send two messages - one to 
Brother Abu Mus'ab 'Abd-al-Wadud, and the other to Brother Abu 
Basir Nasir al-Wahishi - and ask them to put forward their best 
in cooperating with Shaykh Yunis in whatever he asks of them. 
Hint to the brothers in the Islamic Maghreb that they provide 
him with the financial support that he might need in the next 
six months, to the tune of approximately 200,000 euros. 
 
These two messages are to be coordinated with Shaykh Yunis, and 
arrange a name for him that does not divulge his nationality. 
Arrange for a secure method of communications and coordination 
between them and Shaykh Yunis. Stress the utmost secrecy in work 
and restrict  
 
Page 33 
 
the knowledge of Shaykh Yunis affair to the leadership in the 
regions in which he has to work with the brothers. 
 
Also indicate to the brothers in Yemen when talking about 
coordination before conducting any work outside the peninsula, 
that working in the sea, even within the territorial waters of 
the peninsula, is to be considered external work that requires 
coordination with you. 
 
Pay attention to explaining the importance of coordination, as 
well as the dangers of neglecting it, to all the brothers in all 
the regions. In general, it would be good to clarify the wisdom 
or the reason behind this in most of what we ask the brothers 
for, unless it exposes operational secrets. 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

 
10- Please write a report about Brother Shaykh Yunis at the 
first opportunity. Include (information on) his birth, 
education, social status, his best qualifications and 
experiences, as well as his manner and dealings with the 
Mujahidin and his relationship with them, the date of his 
becoming religiously adherent, and his joining Jihad. If it is 
not easy on you that the report be complete and comprehensive, 
it is alright to ask the brothers in the Islamic Maghreb for 
help after you send me whatever you already have. 
 
11- In a previous message, we asked the security official, 
Brother Abu al-Wafa' and also his deputy for a report about the 
conditions on your side; however, we have not yet received them, 
it would be good if you would follow up on this matter. 
 
12- Please report to me in detail about the financial situation 
on your side and about your vision and plans to improve it. 
 
Page 34 
 
Your earmarking of the budget should set aside enough salaries 
for the brothers and the families for a year, regardless of the 
finical forecast for the coming days. 
 
13- It would be good of you to provide us with detailed 
information about our brother Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who was 
appointed as a replacement for our brother Abu 'Umar al-
Baghdadi, Allah have mercy on his soul, and his first lieutenant 
and deputy al-Nasir Lidin Allah, AKA Abu Sulayman. It would be 
better for you to ask several sources among our brothers there, 
whom you trust, about them so that the matter becomes clear to 
us. I also would like that you ask our brothers in Ansar al-
Islam Organization where they stand on the new Emirs, Abu Bakr 
al-Baghdadi and his brothers. 
 
I do remind you to put forward your maximum effort to achieve 
unity and resolve any conflicts between all of the Jihadi 
entities in Iraq. 
 
In these efforts to achieve unity, there should be a special 
message directed to our brothers there that stresses the 
importance of unity and collectiveness and that they maintain a 
basic foundation of the religion, so it must get precedence over 
names, titles, or entities if they obstruct the achievement of 
that great duty. 
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

14- I want to remind them of the importance of the people's 
first impression of who is addressing them, especially when he 
bears great responsibility. Since we carry the responsibility of 
a call that we want to deliver to the people, this takes care to 
find out what suits the people and the path from which you can 
reach them, deliver the faith to them, and convince them with 
it. 
 
Page 35 
 
Part of this is to eliminate any strange appearance that will 
make them wonder and to adopt what they are used to, such as 
appearing in the media in true name, even if just a first name, 
and also appearing in Arab dress, as it is closer to the people 
than the dress of the people in these areas. (I also want to 
remind you that) people like short audio and video speeches and 
to disseminate what you can on the Internet. 
 
These are just opinions and I am open to your opinion. 
 
15- You should send (a message) to the brothers in all the 
regions saying that a minimum of two brothers should be sent for 
suicide operations; they should not send a single suicide 
brother. We have experienced this in many operations where the 
percentage of success was very low, due to the psychological 
effects that overcome the brother in such cases. The most recent 
of which was the operation in which our brothers targeted the 
British Ambassador in Yemen, and one of our brothers, Allah have 
mercy on his soul, conducted it. Regardless of the heroism of 
the brother and his steadfastness, the psychological factors 
that affect the person in such cases necessitate the presence of 
a companion that will support and bolster him. 
 
Some people will say that some of the Prophet's companions 
conducted operations alone. This is a very different example: 
They were not suicide operations, and that is where the big 
difference lies. 
 
16- I asked Shaykh Sa'id, Allah have mercy on his soul, to task 
brother Ilyas to prepare two groups - one in Pakistan and the 
other in the Bagram area of Afghanistan - with the mission of 
 
Page 36 
 
anticipating and spotting the visits of Obama or Petraeus to 
Afghanistan or Pakistan to target the aircraft of either one of 
them. They are not to target visits by US Vice President Biden, 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

Secretary of Defense Gates, Joint Chiefs of Staff (Chairman) 
Mullen, or the Special Envoy to Pakistan and Afghanistan 
Holbrook. The groups will remain on the lookout for Obama or 
Petraeus. The reason for concentrating on them is that Obama is 
the head of infidelity and killing him automatically will make 
Biden take over the presidency for the remainder of the term, as 
it is the norm over there. Biden is totally unprepared for that 
post, which will lead the US into a crisis. As for Petraeus, he 
is the man of the hour in this last year of the war, and killing 
him would alter the war's path.  
 
So please ask brother Ilyas to send to me the steps he has taken 
into that work. 
 
17- It would be good if you coordinate with our brothers of the 
Pakistan and Afghanistan Taliban in regards to the external 
work, so that there is complete cooperation between us, and tell 
them that we started planning work inside America many years 
ago, and gained experience in that field, and we and they are 
brothers so we should not fall into the error that hurts the 
Muslims and benefits the enemy, due to lack of coordination 
between us. So, for example, the operation of brother Faysal 
Shahrazad, Allah release his imprisonment, was possible to avoid 
his capture and the errors that happened easily by one who had 
experience 
 
Page 37 
 
in that area, so if a brother purchased the vehicle and then 
travelled from America to Waziristan before the operation, it 
would have made it difficult to capture the brother that fast, 
and based on that, draw their attention to the importance of 
cooperation among us and the possibility of the two sides 
adopting the operation reduces the possibility of these errors, 
after which the Americans commented that the Mujahidin have 
become unable to conduct a large operation that is well planned. 
 
18- You have to keep in mind the possibility, though remote, 
that the journalists may be involuntarily monitored, in a way 
that we or they do not know about, either on ground or by 
satellite, especially Ahmad Zaydan, and it is possible that a 
tracking chip could be put into some of their personal effects 
before coming to the meeting place to conduct any business with 
them, or to conduct an interview with one of the brothers, and 
as you know Ahmad Zaydan has interviewed a number of the Taliban 
leaders and also with Shaykh Sa'id Allah, have mercy on his 
soul, and the Americans did not kill any of them or know his 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

location from surveying Ahmad Zaydan except that it may be a 
matter that might attract their attention, as they identified 
the house where the brothers Abu 'Umar al-Baghdadi and Abu 
Hamzah al-Muhajir Allah, have mercy on their souls, were staying 
in, across satellites, by monitoring some brothers who were 
released from prison and who went to them after that. 
And based on that, it would be prudent and a defeat to the enemy 
to avoid any meetings with journalists. 
 
Page 38 
 
And paying attention to aircraft and satellite surveillance 
cannot be avoided with training on counter surveillance or 
changing vehicles or conducting meetings with journalists in a 
place away from the location of the Mujahidin, or bringing the 
journalists by night so that they do not find the way and the 
other procedures like that. 
 
But you should use the secure means in contacting the media and 
journalists which are using the mail. 
 
So please inform our brothers of the Taliban in Pakistan and 
Afghanistan about that for fear on their safety. 
 
19- It is obvious that remaining on the same M.O. in 
communications between us makes it weak from a security point of 
view, as it makes it easy on the enemy to find out the method 
that we use in communicating, so initially we have to employ the 
following steps:  
 
A- That the two brothers' couriers from my side and yours should 
not meet to exchange messages except in a closed market or mall. 
B- That the brother who is bringing the messages out of 
Waziristan report to you after every trip to inform you if the 
security situation is normal or elevated and changed, like 
increased scrutiny, questioning, or photography, whether aimed 
at specific persons or at all the passersby  
 
Page 39 
 
or that the search elements have been replaced with elements 
that are more alert and attentive. 
 
20- Regarding our brother Abu Talhah al-Almani, Shaykh Sa'id 
Allah, have mercy on his soul and accept him among the martyrs, 
told me that the brother was on his way to a suicide operation, 
so if he has executed the operation, we ask Allah to take him 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

among the martyrs and put him in paradise, and if his operation 
has been delayed and you see that he has a special talent that 
is lacking in the external work section, then it would be good 
to tell him that, and that if he postpones his desire to conduct 
a suicide operation that he write to me his vision of external 
work. 
 
21- It would be nice to ask our brothers of Pakistan Taliban to 
deny their connection to the recent operation in Lahore against 
(phonetic: al-Briluwiyah). (TN: possibly referring to: (The News 
Online, 2 Jul) Lahore: Two back-to-back suicide bombings and a 
cracker blast killed at least 42 people and injured over 175 
inside the crowded shrine of Data Gunj Bukhsh in Lahore on 
Thursday night.) 
 
And also ask them about the truth in the news that talks about 
beginnings of negotiations and truce talks between them and the 
Pakistani government, and what is theirs and your opinion on 
that, knowing that much of what I have said about Yemen can be 
applied to the situation on your side. 
 
22- It would be nice to inform us of the truth about what was 
mentioned of arresting our brother 'Azzam al-Amriki. 
 
23- It would be nice if you can send us the book of Shaykh Abu 
Yahiya (Enemy Usage of Bystanders in Present Jihad), and his 
book (Studies in Decisive Unanimity) and it would be better that 
you provide us with each theological work published by you. 
 
Page 40 
 
24-Enclosed is a message for Shaykh Yunis, please deliver it to 
him if he is on your side or if he has travelled, but there is a 
secure mode of delivering it; and if there is no secure method 
to deliver it, then please destroy it. 
 
25- It would be nice to inform me of whom you have of the 
brothers who have no objection to accompanying me, and they are 
natives of this country and their situation is suitable for that 
matter. I asked Shaykh Sa'id Allah, have mercy on his soul, to 
tell me who he has and he mentioned some of the brothers, except 
that their situation, security wise, was not suitable to our 
conditions, and it seems that he had limited choices, so please 
continue the search and provide me with names and resumes of the 
brothers that you think are qualified. You know the features 
that they must have, like being tested until there is no doubt 
and that he is not wanted by the authorities for lawsuits or 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

crimes, and that he owns an official ID card that is valid or 
can renew it if it has expired, and that he is able to rent 
houses and purchase requirements. 
 
And that he be secretive even from his family and friends, and 
to be well-mannered, quiet, patient, aware, and knowledgeable of 
the enemy tricks, and able to stay away from his family if that 
becomes risky. 
 
And that he is not from an area known to have many Mujahidin and 
that he does not inform you of his real name or the location 
where his family lives.  
 
Page 41 
 
And please pay attention to that subject and inform me within 
two months, as the notice that my companion has given me is 
limited. 
 
26- Brother 'Abdallah al-Halabi ('Abd-al-Latif) informed me that 
my family in Iran is on the way to come to the brothers in 
Pakistan or Waziristan, so as a precaution and to safeguard 
everyone, we have to assume that their arrival will be different 
than what we are used to when our brothers arrived who were 
coming from Iran in the past, for several reasons of which is 
that my son Ladin has been allowed by the Iranians to exit Iran 
and go to Syria as a show of good will to the rest of the 
detainees, and that they will be released, and he will be keen 
on informing the family that his brothers will be exiting soon 
from Iran. No doubt that such news will exchanged over the 
phone, while the phones are monitored, thus the information will 
be available to the adversaries. Accordingly, if the 
intelligence commander in the area is aware, he will think that 
they are headed to me and will survey them to find the place 
that they will settle in.  
 
And regardless of the possibilities in monitoring them, we have 
to be on the cautious side and take the following steps to break 
the surveillance:  
 
They will go to the tunnel between Kuhat and Peshawar, and 
arrange a meeting between them and another brother. The meeting 
must be precise in timing and it will be inside the tunnel, and 
they will change cars inside the tunnel, so they will ride in 
the car with the brother that they will meet instead of the car 
they were riding in, and the brothers who are going to drive the 
car must be instructed on the strict adherence to the timings.  

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

 
Page 42 
 
After changing cars, the brother who is driving the car that is 
subject to surveillance will drive to an area that is 
unsuspected, and the people coming from Iran will go to 
Peshawar, go to one of the closed markets, and change cars 
again, then head to a safe place in Peshawar until we arrange 
for them to come, with Allah's will. 
 
The main thing about succeeding in avoiding surveillance is to 
go to the tunnel and to move after getting out of it in overcast 
weather, even if that would lead to them waiting for some time, 
knowing that the Peshawar area and its surroundings is often 
overcast. 
 
They also should be warned on the importance of getting rid of 
everything they received from Iran, like baggage or anything, 
even as small as a needle, as there are eavesdropping chips that 
are developed to be so small that they can even be put inside a 
medical syringe; and since the Iranians are not to be trusted, 
then it is possible to plant chips in some of the coming 
people's belongings. 
 
This process will be done only with Um Hamzah. As for my sons 
'Uthman and Muhammad, it would be nice to arrange a safe place 
for them in Pakistan. 
 
Page 43 
 
And it is preferred that we communicate with the Iranians if 
they release my family and do not release my daughter Fatimah, 
as they promised that after the release of their prisoner with 
us that they will release my family, which includes my daughter 
Fatimah, and she is connected to her husband, and it is not fair 
to separate women from their husbands, so she should be released 
with her husband and his wife Um Hafs (TN: his other wife). 
 
As for what concerns my son Hamzah, you had an opinion that the 
arrival of the brothers to us be stopped due to the current 
difficult situation, so after thinking it over, I sent to Shaykh 
Sa'id Allah, have mercy on his soul, an opinion that he agreed 
on with me, which is that we receive all the brothers arriving, 
so that they remain as a lifeline and replenishment for what we 
lose of talents and cadres, and to limit the time that they 
remain in Pakistan to two or three weeks, whereby they are given 
a quick training course that is heavy on ideology in addition to 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

weapons usage basics, and through that we get to identify the 
talents and abilities of the coming brothers, so that whom we 
find is distinguished and capable on call and recruitment. We 
will send him to his country to conduct specific missions like 
inciting for Jihad over the internet, collecting donations, or 
recruiting some distinguished brothers, and we will keep a 
limited number of them to develop their energy with you in 
Waziristan. As far as the rest of the youth, you send the ones 
that show toughness and discipline, and adherence to Islamic 
manners to the front with the Taliban, and you tell him that he 
will live like they live and those that you notice who do not 
have it, then you apologize to them and tell them that when the 
conditions improves, we will send a call out for him and his 
like to respond and join. 
 
Page 44 
 
And based on that, there is an issue that I wanted to consult 
with you on, which is that my son Hamzah be sent to Qatar, where 
he studies religious sciences, and perform the duty of informing 
the nation and delivering some of what we ask him to deliver to 
the nation, spread the Jihad doctrine, and refute the wrong and 
the suspicions raised around Jihad within the freedoms allowed 
there. 
 
There is no doubt that the nation needs to be approached and 
closely interacted with, and the knowledge of its realities and 
the approaches that need to be used in delivering the 
information, while the Mujahidin do not get that opportunity 
because of their distance and the apostates chasing them 
worldwide, which denies them the chance to find out the needs of 
the nation and to respond to these needs. 
 
Except that Hamzah is one of the Mujahidin and he bears their 
thoughts and worries and at the same time he can interact with 
the nation, as it is difficult to indict him and to ask Qatar to 
extradite, him because he was imprisoned when he was a child, so 
there are no crimes outstanding against him. 
 
27- In the past, I watched some of programs about me, the most 
recent of which was ―al-Islamiyun‖ program (TN: the Islamists). 
In one of its episodes was a repeated matter that relied on 
incorrect information, and in some case inaccurate information, 
and as you know, if the person does not disclose his history 
then the media people and the historians will make up some 
history for him with whatever information is available to them, 
whether right or wrong. 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

 
So in order not have a mix-up on that subject, I thought that 
you could arrange with Ahmad Zaydan to prepare a program 
documented by us with real information, which I might send to 
you in a future message.  
 
And part of the agreement is that the work would be joint 
between al-Jazeera and al-Sahab, so that they have the 
copyrights preserved to them. 
 
In closing: We wait to hear your news and messages, and we pray 
to Allah to guide us all on what he likes and on what pleases 
him, and to get us together with his help and will, and cover us 
with his mercy, and praise Allah. 
 
Page 45 
 
Your brother Zamrai.  
 
 
--The attached is what Shaykh Yunis wrote: 
 
Our status and the two pitfalls endangering us which we need to 
eradicate. 
 
Presently we are experiencing the most favorable atmosphere in 
the history of the Islamic nation. There is a base of youths 
adopting our teachings and following our path without any 
efforts on our parts to teach them the faith. They are ready for 
anything posted for them on the ―spider web‖ (TN: Internet), 
after validating the source.  
 
Page 46 
 
It is the main principle of the empowerment strategy, as the 
saying goes; swords conquer and knowledge enlightens; and 
capturing the hearts comes before controlling nations. It makes 
the establishment of the religion easier; and the best example 
is the model of Fayruz al-Daylami, who accomplished his task 
without seeing the Prophet Muhammad. Also, because Fayruz knew 
in his heart what was needed to be done, and did it. Therefore, 
spreading our cause and simplifying its principles so it is easy 
to understand and clarify its applicability in answering all the 
mundane and religious questions. The model will speed up the 
conquering, the victory, and uncover any hidden surprises from 
the unexpected in our midst, which is a point realized by the 
enemy of God among the Christians. They have found a class of 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

followers in our countries who are educated in their culture to 
work for them. It behooves us to facilitate the Jihad road 
before our ores in unimaginable, easy, and clean-to-achieve 
ways; and to protect against two dangerous pitfalls: one is 
security related and the other is inflexibility and narrow-
mindedness, on which I will elaborate later. 
 
Having the youth base represent the right soil for our cause, 
without having to publicize our activities. The leadership cadre 
here in Khurasan has been praised and trusted by everyone, and 
it is doing that on our behalf, allowing us freedom of movements 
and innovation in the methods, the ways of smuggling, and 
counterfeiting; and mastering these skills, will allow us to 
teach the art of mingling among the people executing our strikes 
and hiding without a trace. 
 
Now the pitfalls: 
1- Security pitfall: I will issue a small guideline, signed by 
the organization, for awareness and directions for anyone 
thinking about Jihad to prevent the brother from burning himself 
before burning the enemy. I will also add a suggestion to 
indicate they are preparing the stage for the coming nation, to  
 
Page 47 
 
disguise our intentions from our enemy, leading him to thinking 
it is a dream attributable to the demise of our cadres and the 
adversity we are under. We will utilize the right individual at 
the right stage, either before or after the creation of the 
nation. The format of the guideline will be video, audio, 
written and translated to all languages available to us. It will 
save time in training and make any newcomer an arrow ready to 
fly. 
 
2- We have to make our position unequivocally clear on the issue 
of inflexibility and narrow-mindedness; and must have concise, 
written instructions published for all of the awakening youths 
to know our stand. The benefits are undeniable on having a 
guideline to abide by, for ourselves as well as our friends, and 
to rid ourselves of the accusation of inflexibility and narrow-
mindedness, and it will also broaden the horizons of our 
brethren. We are approaching a stage where narrow-mindedness is 
a killer, and ignorance of Shari'ah is damning. Lately, the term 
―the Salafist approach to Jihad‖ is spreading on the Internet, 
accusing individuals of not following the approach. It is a very 
dangerous situation, especially because it is attributed to us 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT 
 

and the rise of new groups advocating for a stringent form of 
the faith. 
 
The certainty in issues related to Jihad is mere guessing used 
to typify and classify people in a way that is not free from the 
hands and intervention of state security apparatus. It is a 
possibility that cannot be ruled out. This typifying (TN: 
religious stereotyping), boasting with titles, isolates and 
segregates us from the  
 
Page 48 
 
nation. You have experienced it in Peshawar and have seen its 
outcome in Algeria. If this concept gains footing, it will put 
the individuals in a situation where they refrain from speaking 
the truth for the fear of typifying (TN: religious 
stereotyping). Therefore, it is a must to eliminate it while in 
its infancy, and expand peoples' horizons, guiding them gently 
to the truth. We are not monopolizing the Salafi way or any 
other doctrine, but we are members of the entire nation, 
reciting the words of its scholars on righteousness, and we do 
not hold any grudges or are unreachable by the followers of any 
dogma. We are all from one nation and we are all held by our 
words, and none but the ones descried in the Cow verse are left. 
The matter of the practical Jihad operations is vast, and the 
issues we are facing now are agreed upon by the prominent 
scholars of our nation.  
  
We must avoid the stigma of being a one-dimensional sect, 
opposed to all others. We are Muslims following the teachings of 
Islam and we are not the owners of the Salafist way, and must 
avoid typifying (TN: religious stereotyping) each other. It is 
important to have a memorandum issued from Shaykh Abu-Yahya and 
Shaykh Mahmud clarifying the issues of penitence, atonement, and 
the virtue of patience; refraining from accusing and judging 
without being qualified to judge; in addition to expanding the 
awareness of the followers in the arenas of politics and 
Shari'ah, which I believe publishing a letter in the form of 
questions and answers well help greatly.  
 
(TN: No signature, or date)  
 
Page 49 
 
(TN: Blank) 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000019-HT