 
 

Full Translation begins: 
 
(Page 1 of 21) 
 
In the name of God the merciful the compassionate  
 
1- Evaluating the material of the speech and the benefit of the 
Shaykh's appearance in the present stage: 
 
As for the material of the speech, it is fine and not specified 
on the midterm elections, but is good for publishing in any 
time, God knows best. But I have a warning about what was 
mentioned of a statement by (a previous president of yours) who 
is the person? If what is meant is what was referred to 
(Benjamin Franklin), who was mentioned by Shaykh Ayman in one of 
his statements, we should remind that (Benjamin Franklin) was 
not a president, but a "statesman" and one of the founders of 
the United States and its Constitution. I have not heard about 
what is quoted from him, but from Shaykh Ayman. I do not know 
the source of the story, or its popularity amongst the 
Americans. But such a mistake may be used to slander the Shaykh, 
and accuse him of talking about something he does not master 
(politics). The evidence is his mixing between the presidents 
and non-presidents. Although plenty of the Americans may also 
think that (Franklin) a president, because of his picture on the 
currency that usually carries the photos of the presidents. But 
this mistake is not usually committed by those talking in 
politics, analyzing and discussing. It is a common mistake among 
general people and not between specialists. 
 
All of this, if the one desired is –"the previous president" 
(Benjamin Franklin). If another person was intended, then there 
is no need for my previous words. 
 
As for the benefit of exposing the Shaykh at this stage, we 
should look at this matter from all angles. We should also 
consider the following points: 
 
- Irrespective of the passing of the mid-term elections, the 
timing now is very suitable for the Shaykh to show with this 
speech. This is because all the political talk in America is 
about the economy, forgetting or ignoring the war and its role 
in weakening the economy. Just as what a Pakistani journalist 
residing in America has said, that the press conference held by 
Obama after the midterm elections, all the questions were on the 
bad economy, and the means to get out of the crisis. 
Nevertheless not one of the journalists dared to embarrass Obama 

 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

by questioning him about the influence on the American budget 
and the national economy of spending the billions yearly on the 
two wars of Afghanistan and Iraq. 
 
- It is all right if the Shaykh appeared now, then appeared in 
the 10th anniversary of the attacks of Manhattan and Washington. 
Every exposure of him, as long as it is not daily or semi-
weekly, should have an influence. The repetition of his 
exposure, irrespective of the vicious campaign that is waged 
against al-Qa'ida, everywhere, is by itself something that 
attracts attention. 
 
(Page 2 of 21)  
 
- We should not forget that there are millions of admirers of 
the Shaykh in the Islamic world, who are eager for his 
appearance to ensure his health and that he is well. Those 
should be targeted in our speeches and messages, before the 
Americans and Europeans, who do not listen to or evaluate what 
is being said. 
 
- We should also not forget the Mujahidin brothers in the 
fronts, who are passing through crucial times and facing 
disaster after disaster. They also will be happy to see the 
Shaykh again; his appearance will raise their morale with the 
help of God. I would think that it is suitable for the Shaykh to 
address a video speech to the Mujahidin in all the arenas, 
consoling, urging them to endure, confirming their steps and 
guiding them. The message that he sent when Shaykh Sa'id -may 
God bless his soul- was strong and influential, so may God 
reward him well. Many people do not read, and even if they read, 
they are more influenced by visuals. 
 
The bottom line, since there is no security precaution from 
having a video appearance, and there is no error or something in 
the speech which may need reconsideration, and as long as the 
Shaykh is satisfied to publish it after the elections -being 
silent is a sign of acceptance– I see that it is produced with 
no hesitation or delay, and God knows best. 
 
2- The Issue of preparing for the Tenth Anniversary, and how it 
will be marketed in the Media, and How to Exploit the Media in 
General:  
 
As far as the American channel that could be used to deliver our 
messages, whether on the tenth anniversary or before or after, 
in my personal opinion there are no distinct differences between 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

the channels from the standpoint of professionalism and 
neutrality. It is all as the Shaykh has stated (close to 
professionalism and neutrality) it has not and will not reach 
the perfect professionalism and neutrality, only if God wants 
that. 
 
From the professional point of view, they are all on one level-
except (Fox News) channel which falls into the abyss as you 
know, and lacks neutrality too. 
 
As for the neutrality of CNN in English, it seems to be in 
cooperation with the government more than the others (except Fox 
News of course). Its Arabic version brings good and detailed 
reports about al-Sahab releases, with a lot of quotations from 
the original text. That means they copy directly from the 
releases or its gist. It is not like what other channels and 
sites do, copying from news agencies like Reuters, AP and 
others. 
 
I used to think that MSNBC channel may be good and neutral a 
bit, but is has lately fired two of the most famous journalists 
–Keith Olberman and Octavia Nasser the Lebanese – because they 
released some statements that were open for argument (The 
Lebanese had praised a Shia Imam Muhammad Husayn Fadlallah after 
his death and called him "One of the marvels of Hizballah" it 
seems she is a Shia.) 
 
(Page 3 of 21) 
 
CBS channel was mentioned by the Shaykh, I see that it is like 
the other channels, but it has a famous program (60 Minutes) 
that has some popularity and a good reputation for its long 
broadcasting time. Only God knows the reality, as I am not 
really in a position to do so. 
 
ABC channel is all right; actually it could be one of the best 
channels, as far as we are concerned. It is interested in al-
Qa'ida issues, particularly the journalist Brian Ross, who is 
specialized in terrorism. The channel is still proud for its 
interview with the Shaykh. It also broadcasted excerpts from a 
speech of mine on the fourth anniversary, it also published most 
of that text on its site on the internet. 
 
In conclusion, we can say that there is no single channel that 
we could rely on for our messages. I may ignore them, and even 
the channel that broadcast them, probably it would distort them 
somehow. This is accomplished by bringing analysts and experts 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

that would interpret its meaning in the way they want it to be. 
Or they may ignore the message and conduct a smearing of the 
individuals, to the end of the list of what you know about their 
cunning methods. 
 
But if the display -in the next anniversary for example- of a 
special type, like a special interview with Shaykh Usama or 
Shaykh Ayman, and with questions chosen by the channel, and with 
a good camera, we might find a channel that would accept its 
broadcasting. But they would accept this time, so as to get an 
exclusive press scoop: The first press interview of Shaykh Usama 
or Shaykh Ayman since 10 years ago! Particularly if the Shaykh 
is the one to be interviewed. This is because of the scarcity of 
his appearance during the last nine years. Because of the poor 
photographic quality of the last two releases –I do not know the 
photo quality this time- this led those believers in conspiracy 
theory to speculate if the person was the Shaykh, and you may 
have seen the program (Ben Ladin, alive or dead?) that was 
broadcast by Al Jazeera. 
 
Accordingly, a high quality speech (HD) may receive some 
interest by some channels in the tenth anniversary. If the 
quality of the new Shaykh's speech is high, relative to the two 
previous speeches, you may think to compress it or take some 
measures to decrease the quality, to be similar to the previous 
ones, and I am talking seriously. 
 
In general, and no matter what material we send, I suggest that 
we should distribute it to more than one channel, so that there 
will be healthy competition between the channels in broadcasting 
the material, so that no other channel takes the lead. It should 
be sent for example to ABC, CBS, NBC, and CNN and maybe PBS and 
VOA. As for Fox News, let her die in her anger. That is if there 
was no agreement with a specific channel to publish a specific 
material, or conduct an interview, or the like. 
 
(Page 4 of 21) 
 
As for the second method, which I suggest, it is close to what 
the Shaykh mentioned of communicating with 'Abd-al-Bari Atwan 
and Robert Fisk. I suggest that we send the material-or 
materials-to a group of writers and professional or independent 
journalists, who have shown interest in al-Qa'ida issues, from 
different countries. In Britain, the two journalists Atwan and 
Fisk, and probably others, in America Brian Russ, Simon Hirsh 
and Jerry Van Dyke and others, in Canada Eric Margolis and 
Gwynne Dyer. In Europe, the Norwegian journalist who spent some 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

time with the students in Kroner and released a film that was 
condemned in the West because he shows that the students are 
humans that have families and children and that they laugh and 
eat as the rest of the people. In Pakistan, Hamid Mir and Salim 
Safi, the owner of the program (Jerga) at Geo channel, also 
Rahimullah Yusuf Zia and Jamal Ismail, and at Al Jazeera …. (Put 
their names here if they exist). In Egypt, Dr. Muhammad 'Abbas 
and others, in Jordan Dr. Karam Hijazi, in Yemen 'Abd-al-Ilah 
Haydar Sha'i -if he is released by the government and is still 
concerned with al-Qa'ida issues, and so on. It would be good if 
we send it to 30-50 of those journalists and writers. We would 
inform each that he has been chosen to be amongst a group of 
international journalists and writers, and that they will 
receive special media material on the tenth anniversary of 9/11. 
It will be favorable if the message sent to them also includes 
what was mentioned by the Shaykh, of reasons that call them to 
be interested in this material and to cooperate in publishing 
its mission for the world, plus other convincing arguments. 
There would be a password and a site address to download the 
materials at the right time, let it be 5 days before the 
anniversary, for example. This is easy -as I think- on our 
brothers working in the networking. 
 
Suppose that one-third of those corresponded with are 
interested, then we would have 10 international journalists that 
will display our mission in the newspapers and channels. 
If the experiment works, then I suggest to repeat it on every 
important occasion, and any instant we want to increase the 
number of those informed about some message or statement. 
 
To rely only on Al Jazeera and the Jihadi forums on the internet 
is not useful. Al Jazeera channel, now seems to put requirements 
like other channels and agencies and papers to cover al-Qa'ida 
announcements. Namely to include a threat or to claim 
responsibility for an act. As for the messages of diplomatic 
tone, like the two Shaykh's messages about the flooding, is not 
suitable for publication in their media, as this face of al-
Qa'ida should not be exposed to people. 
 
As for the Jihadi forums, it is repulsive to most of the 
Muslims, or closed to them. It also distorts the face of al-
Qa'ida, due to what you know of bigotry, the sharp tone that 
characterizes most of the participants in these forums. It is 
also biased towards (Salafists) and not any Salafist, but the 
Jihadi Salafist, which is just one trend of the Muslims trends. 
The Jihad Salafist is a small trend within a small trend.  
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

(Page 5 of 21) 
 
By the way, Dr. Muhammad al-Misa'ri has excellent comments on 
Jihadi forums, although his forum (al-Tajdid) is not any better, 
actually worse as it seems to me. Al-Misa'ri was also correct in 
his analysis about Iraq, in comparison with other Jihadi arenas. 
To end the suspicion I would say: Whoever read my comments on 
the Dr.'s book knows that I said something similar to what he 
mentioned about the forums and the Islamic State of Iraq. All of 
that before the al-Misa'ri announcement that he issued after the 
killing of the State Emirs. My comments on the Dr.'s book were 
two months earlier, so I did not stem my thoughts from al-
Misa'ri at all. But, there was some agreement on opinions –only 
on these two issues. (As for the other issues, like his 
definition of unification, some Fiqh theses, his exaggerated 
stiffness with Shia, those adhering to the buried, rejuvenators 
of myths and pagan appearances, not at all).  
 
I would like to emphasize that I was at ease with declaring the 
State for a long time. I was not at ease with al-Zarqawi's -may 
God bless his soul- moves, which he took in the name of al-
Qa'ida. All of this is known to the Shaykhs Ayman, 'Atiyah and 
Ubayd (Munir). My stand is not a new one, but I followed the 
official stand of the organization, being afraid not to create a 
seduction, and because I used to accuse my own opinion. This is 
to note now, although I have accepted my own stand, I do not 
discuss this topic except with the scholars like you and 
sometimes with my brothers at al-Sahab. After all, it is but a 
set of advice and opinions, I wish you give it some 
consideration and discuss it, may God lead you and me to the 
right opinions. I am not biased in my opinion, neither do I ally 
with or differ from accordingly. If there was some sharpness in 
introducing the matter, it is the style that I am used to in 
conversation and in writing. I am, however, trying to make my 
style more flexible and less sharp, and help is from God. 
  
3- Showing the Fairness of our Case to the Whole World and the 
European Peoples in Particular and the Obstacles placed in front 
of that: 
 
The virtuous Shaykh has talked about the importance of exposing 
the justness of our case to the world and the Europeans in 
particular, and that is when talking about the preparation for 
the tenth anniversary to Manhattan battle. The Shaykh has 
emphasized that context –as concerned the Europeans- in previous 
messages and statements. 
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

I was -in response to those directives, and after consulting 
brother Ubayd- starting to prepare a message to the Irish, and I 
started searching for the information and materials necessary 
for that to be collected. This was after I noticed the sympathy 
of the Irish people to the Palestinian issue, and the soft 
treatment by the Irish Judicial system of the Muslims accused of 
terrorism, and also not participating with its troops in Bush's 
Crusade wars (although it is participating within the European 
Union forces in training the Somali army). Also, what helped to 
prepare the message was the last economic crisis that affected 
Ireland a lot, thus forcing its youth to look for sources of 
living in the outside. The other matter is the increasing anger 
in Ireland towards the Catholic Church  
 
(Page 6 of 21) 
 
after exposing a number of sex scandals and others. The people 
there are moving towards secularism, after it was the most 
religious of atheist Europe, and why do not we face them with 
Islam? 
 
Also I was thinking of preparing an Arabic message to the 
Christians of the Arab region, calling them to Islam, and to 
caution them from cooperating with invader enemies of Islam who 
oppose the Islamic State. They should welcome the Islamic 
advance, as did their forefathers when the Muslims liberated 
Jerusalem during the time of 'Umar Ibn al-Khattab – May God be 
satisfied with him.  
 
Then the attack on the Catholic Church in Baghdad took place, 
launched by the organization of the Islamic State of Iraq that 
we support, which is –if we like it or not– known to people as 
(al-Qa'ida in Iraq). This attack halted me, and I thought twice 
about my two project messages. As actions are more effective 
than words, their act and the contacts they carried during the 
attack, and the statement they issued later, do not help to gain 
people's sympathy. This attack came days after the declaration 
by the Catholics of the Middle East, of their disagreement with 
Israel in a way that made the Jews and their allies angry, the 
Catholics refusing to utilize the Bible to justify the 
occupation and seizing of Palestine. 
 
Also the Catholics were historically the prominent enemies of 
the Jews, amongst the other Christians. They were also the 
original enemies to the Evangelist Protestant who were the 
vanguard of the Crusades. Their public in general, these days, 
is more sympathetic and understanding of the Muslims, than other 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

Protestant and Orthodox Christians. I do not eliminate the 
animosity, and do not say that if they had the chance they would 
not fight Muslims as did the Anglo-Saxon Protestants. I also do 
not deny the animosity of the Pope and other church heads to 
Islam and Muslims – why not, Islam is the biggest threat for the 
continuity of their power, particularly in Europe. I do not deny 
that they send missionaries here and there, asking Muslims to 
apostasy. But I am talking about the public and present 
situation, and the size of animosity, and the size of the 
missionary activities. We cannot compare their efforts against 
Islam to the efforts of the Evangelist Protestants or the 
efforts of the Coptic Church and other spiteful Orthodox. 
 
Even in Bosnia, we saw the Catholic Croats standing next to the 
Muslims against the Orthodox Serb. I have seen lately, in a 
report about Venezuela, a picture of a wall, with (Islam is the 
heritage of all) written on it.  
 
The conclusion is that, in general, the Catholics are a fertile 
ground for call of God and to persuade them about the just case 
of the Mujahidin, particularly after the rage expanding against 
the mother church (Vatican) as a result of its scandals and 
policies refused by many of its public. 
 
(Page 7 of 21) 
 
But the attacks on the Christians in Iraq, like the Baghdad 
attack and what took place earlier in Mosul and others, does not 
help us to convey the message. Even if the ones we are talking 
to have some grudge against the mother church, they will not 
grasp in general the targeting of their public, women, children 
and men in their church during Mass. 
 
From the strangest matters of this case, and what was reported 
by the media, was the threat of the attackers to kill the 
hostages and start an all out war against Christians in Iraq and 
the region unless the Coptic church (Orthodox) released Wafa 
Qastantin and Kamelia Shihata that are detained in one of its 
Monasteries. It is well known, to whoever has any knowledge of 
the Christians and their factions, that there are no ties 
between the Catholic Church and the Orthodox churches. There is 
historical animosity between the factions, as each side 
considers the other an innovator. Because we are living in the 
age of peaceful coexistence and dialogue exchange, they would be 
spilling each other's blood, as they used to do in the past. 
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

To make the analogy: this operation -from the Christians point 
of view at least- as if an armed group belonging to a given sect 
have assaulted a Sunni mosque in al-Fallujah –not the Awakenings 
mosque- but a regular mosque-they captured the praying audience 
and threatened to kill them and rage an overall war on the 
Sunnah in Iraq, if the rejectionists Shia would release Sunni 
prisoners in the Husayniyahs (TN: Shia prayer rooms) of Sadr 
city in Baghdad or the visiting sites of (The Iranian city of 
Qum) Does this satisfy any sane person? Were we going to 
understand the motives that armed group or who is behind it, or 
who is allying with it? 
 
Is it not, this policy of (Islamic State of Iraq) is exactly the 
Bush policy that rebuffed Europe and the wise men of the world. 
Bush said (either with us or with the terrorists) and did not 
leave a space for neutrality. Here this group in Iraq is telling 
the Christians (Either with us or with al-Maliki government and 
no space for neutrality. Either you pay the "Jizya" (TN: 
nonbeliever tax) to our fictitious state that cannot defend 
itself, and has no chance of defending you, or we will destroy 
your goods). Is this is the justice that we are talking about, 
and that the Shaykh talks about in his statements and messages? 
 
Where is the proof that the Christians of Iraq have stood with 
the government or the Americans as a sect? In my opinion –and I 
could be mistaken- the issue has no relation to the cooperation 
between the weak and marginalized Christian groups with the 
government or the Americans. But it has a relation that the 
(state) group who believes the authenticity of their fictitious 
State and are biased to what was stated by 'Umar al-Baghdadi. He 
claims that the Iraqi Christians should sign another contract 
according to the rules of the Islamic State and pay the "Jizya"…  
Against what? Nothing. 
 
It is irrelevant to rely on the statements of the scholars (the 
root in the blood of the infidels is the resolution unless a 
pledge or safety or Islam). This is out of place and outside the 
discussion. We are here talking about the interest and the 
priorities not about the roots of the issue. 
 
(Page 8 of 21) 
 
How beautiful what Shaykh Usama mentioned lately -when talking 
about a media speech- that the strong statements that were 
mentioned by the ancestors were said during days of dignity and 
control, and therefore it is not fitting to the era of 
vulnerability. And I say: so are some of the rulings of the 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

scholars concerning Jihad, as they were released when Islam was 
strong, mighty and defensible. So it cannot be implemented on 
the days of weakness like our present days. (I mean here what 
was mentioned by some –for example- favoring or stating the 
necessity of demolishing churches and burning the devious 
religious books and things like that that may not fit our 
today's Jihad. Because the nature of our fight differs from 
theirs, and we have different priorities, defending against the 
assailant for example, while the scholars were talking about the 
demanding Jihad, etc…)  
 
Praise to God, where is the stand of the Islamic State of Iraq 
on Christians, from the stand of Shaykh Usama in his speech (The 
Solution) three years ago? Where is their stand from the message 
of Shaykh Ayman's address to the Copts in -as I think- the book 
of acquittal - ? ( I reviewed the book and found it actually in 
chapter 14 under "notes on what is mentioned in the tenth 
series" and I recommend that it be read, as it shows the extent 
of violation of the stand of (Fictitious Iraqi Caliphate) to the 
stand of the two Shaykhs Ayman and Usama). Where does this stand 
go, from the flexible stand of Shaykh 'Abdallah Azzam, from the 
Christians in the Arab lands (look at the interpretation of "al-
Tawba Surah" and the resistance he encountered from the 
attending youth)? Where does their stand go from the position of 
Shaykh Abu Muhammad al-Maqdisi, who refuses the idea of 
detonating the churches - caution: Just exploding a church, even 
if it was empty, how about if it is full of people? 
 
Strange -I swear- the conflict between the statements of our 
leaders and scholars, and the acts of those allied with them -or 
you may say: those claiming to follow them! 
 
In summary, a position must be taken on these behaviors and not 
well studied or well understood stands by groups of Muslims 
before the infidels. The position of the leaders and the 
organization must be clearly defined. 
 
I do not see any obstacle or bad act if al-Qa'ida organization 
declares its discontent with this behavior and other behaviors 
being carried out by the so-called Islamic State of Iraq, 
without an order from al-Qa'ida and without consultation. I see 
that this is done immediately or lately, favorably sooner. I see 
that the organization should declare the cutoff of its 
organizational ties with that organization (TN: Islamic State of 
Iraq). The relations between al-Qa'ida organization and (the 
state) have been practically cut off for a number of years. The 
decision to declare the State was taken without consultation 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

from al-Qa'ida leadership. Their improvised decision has caused 
a split in the Mujahidin ranks and their supporters inside and 
outside Iraq. What is left between al-Qa'ida organization and 
(the State), but the link of faith and Islam, which urges us to 
submit advise and apply the rule of propagating virtue and 
preventing vice, and the support of good deeds. 
 
(Page 9 of 21) 
 
This is the only solution facing al-Qa'ida organization, 
otherwise its reputation will be damaged more and more as a 
result of the acts and statements of this group, which is 
labeled under our organization (the blessed with God's will). 
And among the repulsive issues -and certainly forbidden- the 
targeting of mosques with explosives and others- as what is 
happening in Afghanistan and Pakistan and sometimes in Iraq. We 
still need to clarify our justified issue to the Muslims before 
we clarify it to the Europeans (look at the next chapter for 
more on this topic) 
 
I have read a new article by Robert Fisk expressing his reaction 
–and other people's reaction- to the attack on the church in 
Baghdad, and allow me to translate to you the most important 
parts and gist the rest: 
 
The title of the article: The West makes it easier for al-Qa'ida 
to attack… November 6 2010  
 
The speed with which the Baghdad church massacre by al-Qa'ida 
has frightened the peoples of the Middle East is a sign of just 
how fragile the earth is beneath their feet. Unlike our western 
television news, Al Jazeera and al-Arabiya show the whole horror 
of such carnage. Arms, legs, beheaded torsos, leave no doubt of 
what they mean. Every Christian in the region understood what 
this attack meant. Indeed, given the sectarian nature of the 
assaults on Shia Iraqis, I am beginning to wonder whether al-
Qa'ida itself –far from being the center of world terror, as we 
imagine– must be one of the most sectarian organizations ever 
invented. I suspect that there is not just one al-Qa'ida but 
several, feeding off the injustices of the region, a blood 
transfusion which the West (and I am including the Israelis) 
here feeds into its body. (That is as if Fisk is comparing these 
strange injustices to blood transfusion, just as a blood 
transfusion revitalizes the sick or wounded, the same token 
these tyrannies did not rejuvenate al-Qa'ida). 
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

In fact, I am wondering if our governments do not need this 
terror - to make us frightened, very frightened, to make us obey 
to bring more security to our little lives. And I am wondering 
whether those same governments will ever wake up to the fact 
that our actions in the Middle East are what is endangering our 
security. Lord Blair of Isfahan always denied this -(Fisk in 
that sense compares Blair to the representatives of the old 
empire, during the Iraqi invasion Fisk used to say "Lord Blair" 
the owner of "Kut al-Amara." Now as the winds of war are 
directed towards Iran, he is calling Blair as "Lord Blair Sahib 
Isfahan")- even when the 7/7 suicide bomber carefully explained 
in his posthumous video that Iraq was one of the reasons  
 
(Page 10 of 21) 
 
he committed the slaughter in London -and Bush always denied it-  
and Sarkozy will deny it if al-Qa'ida fulfills its latest threat 
to attack France. 
 
Now, as for al-Qa'ida, it is "All Christians" in the Middle East 
who are to be the targets as well, scattering these threats like 
cluster bombs around the region, up to two million of Egypt's 
Coptic community have to be protected at the two week Luxor 
religious festival. This is surrounded by hundreds of state 
security police, after the al-Qa'ida claim that that two Muslim 
women are being held against their will by the Coptic Church. 
That may have originated with a decision by the two women to 
divorce their husbands -by conversion to Islam- thus to end 
their marriage, since the church in Egypt does not allow 
divorce. 
 
(Then Fisk talked on the problems evolving between the Sunnah 
and Shia in Lebanon, after the demand by Hizballah group to the 
government to reject the results of the international 
investigation concerning al-Hariri assassination. Then they 
discussed the acceleration of problems between Muslims and 
Christians in Lebanon, after the desecration of a Christian 
grave in Jiya, in southern Beirut. He also mentioned the 
statements of passionate Shia and Christians concerning the 
attack on the church in Baghdad). 
 
The West does not have the necessary force to help the 
frightened Christians. The acts of faith-based politicians –the 
Christian faith- have brought about a new Christian tragedy in 
the Middle East. 
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

(Then he mentioned a belief of the Americans that he met in the 
state of California that Christianity was a Western religion, 
rather than an eastern. Al-Qa'ida denied its responsibility for 
grave desecration in Lebanon, because of its triviality. But al-
Qa'ida has a presence in Lebanon, as was stated by Bashar al-
Assad, the Shia Iranian and Hizballah ally, which makes him an 
enemy to the organization of Bin Ladin. Then he mentioned a 
statement to al-Hayat newspaper by Bashar, where he said): 
"We are talking about al-Qa'ida as if it has a presence as a 
strong and unified organization. This is not true, but it is 
present as an intellectual trend calling itself al-Qa'ida. This 
organization is the result of a situation and not a cause. It is 
due to anarchy and weak development, it is the result of 
political mistakes that represent some kind of political 
heading. To say that this organization is present everywhere, in 
Syria and all the Arab and Islamic states, that does not mean it 
is widespread nor does it have popularity." 
 
But al-Assad cannot acquit his regime nor the regimes of other 
Arab states, whose security regulates all the political meetings 
other those conducted by the state representatives. This forced 
the Muslims, beginning a long time ago, to talk politics in the 
only institution that they visit, 
 
(Page 11 of 21) 
 
namely the mosque. The supreme irony this week has been to hear 
our lords and masters praising the helpfulness of the Wahhabi 
regime in Saudi Arabia for alerting the West to the aircraft 
package bombs, when it was this same Saudi Arabia that nurtured 
Usama Bin Ladin and his merry men over many years. (This is a 
reference to the legend of Robin Hood, and its hero, who 
disobeyed the British king during the Crusades and started to 
block the roads. He was famous for stealing from the rich and 
distributing it to the poor, and his gang was called "The Merry 
Men". 
 
Because the Middle Eastern dictators also like to scare their 
populations (as if he wants to say that Saudi Arabia created al-
Qa'ida to frighten its people) Egypt's poor are disgusted by 
their ruling elite. But that elite wants to ensure that there 
are no Islamic revolutions in Cairo. And the West wants to 
ensure that there are no Islamic revolutions in Cairo, or Libya, 
or Algeria, or Syria, or Saudi Arabia, and you name the rest. 
The immediate problem is that al-Qa'ida is trying to undermine 
these regimes, as well as the West. (They mean al-Qa'ida). So 
they lump Iraq itself –whether it is a democracy is a bit 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

irrelevant when it does not have a government, and is too busy 
executing its old Ba'athist enemies to protect its own people–
along with the country's Christians and its Shia. And we are 
continuing to stage drone attacks on Pakistan and bomb the 
innocent in Afghanistan and tolerate the torture regimes of the 
Arab world. And to allow Israel to steal more land from the 
Palestinians. I am afraid that it is the same old story. Justice 
will bring peace, not intelligence wars against "world terror," 
but still our leaders will not admit this. 
 
AH The Article 
 
4- It has Become Unbearable and the Avalanche have arrived: The 
Tragedy of Tolerating the Spilling of Blood, Resources and 
Honor, and our Duty towards this Dangerous Phenomenon  
 
The series of targeting the mosques and public places, by some 
who were referred to as the Mujahidin, is continuing and at its 
highest strength those days. So that the claims are not vacant, 
I will review some of the terrible events that I know, and what 
I did not know was graver. 
 
(Page 12 of 21) 
 
- The detonation of a mosque near the village of Sharsada during 
the Eid prayers, in an unsuccessful attempt to kill Aftab Ahmad 
Khan Shirbow; instead, more than fifty of the village commoners 
were killed, and that attack was ordered by Baitullah Mahsud. 
 
- Detonation of a mosque in Khyber area, in an attempt to kill 
(Haji Namdar) the head of the Organization for Propagation of 
Virtue and Prevention of Vice, and an individual from the 
students of (Wazir) tribe. He was not killed, but instead 15 of 
the people who were in the mosque were killed. It was ordered by 
Baitullah Mahsud. Haji Namdar was killed, after a number of 
months, by bullets targeted him while he was in a meeting. 
 
- The detonation of another mosque during Friday prayers, in 
(Jamrud) area near Peshawar. More than fifty were killed in the 
explosion and scores were injured. The mosque was close to a 
barracks for government soldiers, and some of them were among 
the ones killed, but the mosque is open to all. It is attended 
by the regional people and the travelers, because of its 
proximity to the main road.  
 
- Numerous explosions in all the areas, targeting the invaders 
soldiers or the soldiers of the agent's army or police officers, 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

or small government employees, or employees of private companies 
with government contracts, on places most crowded with 
pedestrians, residents and shoppers, without a reason to 
justify. It would have been possible to attack them in a more 
accurate manner, or attack them outside the markets and away 
from the residential areas and crowded streets. 
 
- An explosion at the celebration of doctors graduating in the 
Somali capital, for the sake of killing 3 government ministers; 
they were killed with a huge number of the graduates. The 
Shabaab movement has denied their involvement in the operation, 
and God knows best. 
 
- Explosion on a public playground in the city of (Liki Marwat) 
in Sarhad governorate –then- and 100 people were killed who were 
attending the ballgame. The reason for targeting the playground 
was the presence of a few individuals who belong to the 
(Lashkar) or what is known as a (Peace Committee) that was 
formed there. It was not proven that this committee has targeted 
the Mujahidin even once. And now after this sinful operation, no 
bearded person could enter the area without being investigated 
for being a member of the Taliban. It was said that the person 
responsible is a Taliban leader in Northern Waziristan, and his 
name could be (Badr Mansur). 
 
- Explosions at the checkpoints and control points in a number 
of areas in an illegal way. These target the points at the peak 
hours with the presence of cars and pedestrians. They could have 
been targeted at other times, where the traffic is slow. There 
is another issue; the suicide bomber could be heading to carry 
an operation in another location, but he is intercepted at the 
point or trying to search his car or his body, then he would 
immediately explode himself not caring what could happen of 
killings and injuries to the people around him. He should have 
been supplied with a firearm to fight with until he died 
 
(Page 13 of 21) 
 
or he may have used it to get the people away from him before 
exploding the bomb in a random way. I do not know who ordered 
that, or gave a fatwa about its legality? 
 
-Explosion in a restaurant at the town of (Jandula) in southern 
Waziristan, in a failed attempt to kill (Turkistan Batani) and 
members of (Qara Zayn al-Din) allied with him. Only two were 
killed from the security guards of Turkistan and the rest 
(around 10 dead) were from the general public who were inside 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

and outside the restaurant, from the tribes of Mahsud and 
Batani.  
 
-Explosion in a market in the tribal Mohmand area, three months 
ago, targeting a tribal (Jirga). The targeters thought that it 
would take place inside the place, but it took place in another 
place as a precaution. The number of killed was more than 100, 
all or most of them shoppers that had nothing to do with the 
movement. The Taliban movement claimed the operation as stated 
by Ihsanallah Ihsan, who expressed sorrow for the fall of dead 
among the public, and we thank him for his frankness, at least. 
 
-The operation of exploding the Islamic University in Islam 
Abad, where a number of female and male students were killed. It 
was claimed by (Qari Husayn Mahmud). 
 
-The targeting of the main mosque in Talaqan town, in the 
Pakistani governorate Takhar. The cause of the explosion was to 
kill the mayor (Wali) of Kunduz governorate (Engineer Muhammad 
'Umar) and he was actually killed with thirty others of the 
praying public. 
 
-The explosion of the mosque of (Mawlawi Nur Muhammad) at Wana 
in southern Waziristan tribal area, at the middle of Ramadan. 
Al-Mawlawi was killed with about 30 of those studying the Qur'an 
at the mosque. The Uzbek group was blamed, and the group of 
(Hakimallah Mas'ud), for the responsibility of the attack. 
 
-Lastly -but not least- the attack on the mosque in Dir Adam 
Khel during Friday prayers, which resulted in 70 dead and scores 
of injured. The one responsible -as it was said- is the so 
called (Tariq Afridi) and the target was either one of the 
tribal Shaykhs in opposition to (Emir al-Mu'minin Tariq Afridi) 
or Talabani group members opposed to (Tariq Afridi) group who 
were praying at the mosque. As there is a long record feud 
between them, in assassinations and kidnappings. The group of 
Tariq Afridi claimed that attack. The opposing faction is headed 
by (Mu'min Afridi) and they said he is in good relations with 
students of Wazir tribe and that he resides in Waziristan. All 
these details were taken from the newspapers and I am not 100% 
sure about the accuracy. But from what I know about the black 
reputation of Pakistani Taliban, I am confident of what was 
stated, particularly as these information verify each other. 
They were stated by journalists aware of the Taliban affairs, 
like (Rahimullah Yusuf Zia) and God know best. On the evening of 
the same day, attackers threw a bomb inside a mosque on the 
outskirts of Peshawar during  

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

 
(Page 14 of 21) 
 
the evening prayers. The target was one of the tribal Shaykhs 
who opposed the Taliban, or the family of one of the policemen. 
Five were killed, between them the imam of the Afghani mosque, 
and many were injured. 
 
Note: Tariq 'Azam and Wali al-Rahman Mahsud contacted the 
newspapers one day after the attack on Dera 'Azam Khel, and 
insisted on denying any responsibility for Taliban Pakistan 
Movement from the act. They accused Blackwater Company to be 
behind the incident. They claimed that the telephone calls that 
were conducted with the journalists under the name of Tariq 
Afridi were forged. What is funny is that Tariq Afridi, the man 
accused of the operation, did not contact the journalists to 
defend himself. Maybe his telephone was not working or there was 
some problem with his number, or maybe he is more cautious than 
Wali al-Rahman in using the phone. It should be mentioned that, 
when calling the newspapers, 'Azam Tariq denied any relation 
between Taliban Pakistan Movement and Faisal Shahzad, who tried 
to blast Times Square in New York. Then there was a film 
broadcast by ('Umar Studio) the media branch of Tahrik Taliban 
Pakistan! So who would believe the statements of 'Azam Tariq 
after that? 
 
I would like to point out that (Umma Studio), I think a media 
branch for the Uzbeks, have produced a film where they pledged 
with all rudeness to explode the mosques, as revenge for the 
attack on the Red Mosque, and to bombard other mosques at the 
tribal areas. In that film there were training and battles at 
Dir Adam Khel, Kohut, Ur Kazay and Mohmand and others. They also 
threatened to kill journalists, and showed a photo of a 
correspondent for Al Jazeera English, where the reporter was 
denying the responsibility of Taliban movement for the market 
explosions, while others were blaming the Taliban. But this 
stand of his did not help him much with those sinners. 
 
I conclude these statements, with two stories that show the 
dangers of the situation and the ignorance that prevails amongst 
the ranks: 
 
First story: A year ago or more, a discussion took place between 
me and one of the youth, from the sons of the Arab immigrants, 
about these explosions that are taking place in the mosques of 
Pakistan. I mentioned to him that this is not acceptable and 
that the leaders of the organization and the students of science 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

do not see the mosques explosions and ask the people to stop it. 
Even if the mosque is in a military or government compound, and 
that they have issued statements about that. Even Shaykh 'Isa -
may God release him- I have heard him saying that he does not 
agree on detonating Shia mosques in Pakistan, although he 
considers them infidels, according to Pakistani scholars.  
 
(Of course there are exceptions, as Shaykh 'Isa was planning to 
attack the highest leaders of the military and government during 
the Eid prayers, and it was conveyed to me that al-Qa'ida 
brothers have attacked the military mosque in Rawalpindi. That 
mosque requires –different from other government mosques- a 
membership card to enter) The young man did not accept my story, 
and replied that most -or maybe- all mosques now are mosques of 
evil full of informers, spies and government employees and they 
have no mercy on them, in accordance to a statement by Sayyid 
Qutb in his interpretation of  
 
(Page 15 of 21) 
 
"In the Shadow of the Qur'an" and that talk was stated to him by 
his father. I told him: fine, if you see that they are mosques 
of evil, tear them down, but do not explode them when the 
praying people are inside them. The discussion was ended and I 
did not know if he was convinced or not. 
 
Imagine; a young man ready to detonate a mosque with what it 
includes, based on a generalization of what was stated by Sayyid 
Qutb, may God bless his soul. 
 
The second story: 
A group went to Kurum tribal area to fight the army, and they 
met with the local Taliban. They made an ambush for the enemy on 
one of the main streets. The army patrol was delayed. One of the 
people present asked (if the army did not come, what would we 
do), the leader of the Taliban group said (let us attack the 
Shia) the one asking replied (and if the Shia do not come), the 
leader replied (let us attack the hypocrites) meaning the 
general public and the passersby. The head of the outside group 
was angered and disputed him, the local leader was embarrassed 
and stated that he was joking. The head of the outside group 
replied (how would you joke like that in front of your soldiers 
and members?) This was conveyed to me by the brother who was 
heading the outside group. 
 
-Thereafter: this is a drop from a flood, and a little from 
plenty, as I have tried to concentrate on events that I am sure 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

are true, according to Mujahidin and who are allied to them, or 
whom I thought they were so. Otherwise the list is quite long; 
also, I did not talk about events related to robbery, kidnapping 
and other crimes committed by those corruptors. 
 
It is known that taking over of mosques and spilling the 
innocent, was known through history to be associated with the 
worst groups and individuals, like al-Khawarij, al-Qaramitah, 
al-Hajjaj Bin Yusuf, the Crusaders, the Mongols and Tamerlane 
the national hero of Uzbekistan (although he is not from 
Uzbekistan, but it seems that they liked his toughness and 
brutality) then the Jews and the rejectionists. Then in this 
period, the Americans, the Arab and foreign tyrants, like the 
kings of Hejaz and Najd, Syria's rulers, and the Pakistani ruler 
Pervez Musharraf. Now who are famous for such acts that are 
counted on the side of the Mujahidin, like Hamas Movement and 
Taliban Movement in Pakistan and Afghanistan? 
 
I have no doubt that what is happening to the Jihadi movement in 
these countries is not misfortune, but punishment by God on us 
because of our sins and injustices, or because the sins of some 
of us and the silence of the rest of us. I do not see that my 
statement is an exaggeration and intimidation, as the Qur'anic 
verses, the Hadith and the scholar's statements are plenty, and 
there is no need to state them. Some were stated by Shaykh Abu 
Yahya within his document (al-Rabiyun and the March of Victory), 
and I have mentioned some of it in a draft of a statement I have 
prepared on the subject, and will state it here afterwards, with 
God's will. 
 
You may say: (but we have denied those who have committed these 
trespasses, and are still denying it and we guided them to the 
right path at every instance and in all occasions). I would say 
to them: yes, I know that, and you have done well, as some of 
the information that I have mentioned about the detonations at 
the mosques came to me originally from some scholars who 
conveyed to me some of their experiences in advice and 
counseling (which had faced failure, unfortunately, in most 
cases, because of the narrowness of the visions of those spoken 
to, their small minds, and the inclination of their hearts to 
brutality, ruthlessness, excess and intolerance to the 
statements of men and their banners). 
 
I would say: You have done well, in what you have done in 
efforts in this matter, but allow me to state my humble opinion 
in the style that you are following in your denial. It seems to 
me that this style does not rise to the level of the repudiated 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

acts and does not suit its type. You are sticking to secrecy in 
your denial and advice, and see in that a prevailing interest, 
and that pronouncing the denial is harmful, 
 
(Page 16 of 21) 
 
as it causes a break in the ranks, or an exposure of our weak 
spots to the enemy to exploit it, and other arguments that may 
have some consideration chances. 
 
As for the possibility of breaking ranks, it is that: just a 
possibility, and the fact that those conducting those acts, 
maybe it is better for them not to be in the ranks of the 
Mujahidin, as they are just like a polluted spot that should be 
removed and sanitized and cleared from the ranks.  
 
As for exposing our weak spots in front of our enemies to 
exploit it, these attacks are –I swear– a greater shame and more 
horrible weak points, and it has been exploited by the enemies 
to a great extent. It has been exploited to distort the picture 
of the pious and loyal Mujahidin. Now many regular people are 
looking at the Mujahidin as a group that does not hesitate to 
take people's money by falsehood, detonating mosques, spilling 
the bloods of scores of people in the way to kill one or two who 
were labeled as enemies. While they shy away from listening to 
music or looking at a foreign woman – while those issues means 
very little to the common public, who see it as trivial issues. 
They are not, but no comparison to the sins that we are talking 
about. From that juncture, the Shaykhs and sermon speakers 
described the Mujahidin on their forums and life on the air that 
they are free people of the era-or the (Qaramitah of the time). 
They were able to persuade many Muslims of what they are 
claiming. The blame –or most of it– is laid on our shoulders. We 
contributed to that by not clarifying our stand on those 
forbidden acts in a sufficient way. We also contributed to the 
continuation of the perpetrators in their acts, by deferring the 
accusation from the contributors and blaming Blackwater Company 
instead. 
 
I have learned that Shaykh Abu 'Abd-al-Rahman 'Atiyatallah –may 
God save him- has mentioned in his draft fatwa about the markets 
detonations last year, the possibility of having those acts 
committed by some Jihadi groups. He stressed those with 
aggressive rotten attitudes, however he deleted that paragraph 
before publishing the fatwa, upon the advice of some brothers –
may God guide them. 
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

Those who advised him to delete that part, they argued that we 
should not admit that such acts were committed from within our 
ranks: that means we have to impose a media silence! And this is 
a mistake from many aspects: The matter is religious and a fatwa 
and an order for virtue and a prevention of vice, and not a 
simple (organizational secret) of the type that we may impose a 
media silence on. Hiding the right, and delaying its details 
when in need, has strong religious implications, as is well 
known. Now that the matter is exposed known to all, near and 
far, our silence will lead to be despised by people and 
despising ourselves, as we look in front of all as "Mute 
Satans." We see the forbidden committed, and make no move, or 
look like compromisers, praising the killers while they are 
alive, and condole them when dead, and count them as good doers, 
irrespective of what we know about them of immorality. We look 
in the best of cases as inattentive who are not aware of what is 
happening around us. 
 
(Page 17 of 21) 
 
Going back to the issue of our attitude in denial and adoption 
of secrecy, I would say: we are now facing a declared repudiated 
act, announced being committed on the people with no shyness or 
shame. It has engulfed the ranks like fire. The known repudiated 
act is judged differently from that of which no one is aware 
except the one committing it. The last type works on the 
secrecy, and not to announce it -with some exceptions- while the 
first type is where the denial is in the open. This benefits the 
others who would be willing or planning to do it or imitate the 
one doing it. And for other reasons, this disclosure of denial 
is what we ignored here. This made our denial incomplete and not 
qualifying to its basics, and God knows best. 
 
At least, we should take our Prophet (PBUH) when he said: Oh my 
God, I disengage myself from what Khalid did, three times. He 
announced that until it reached us 14 centuries later, think 
about it. 
 
Remark: What is basically required is not calling the actors one 
by one and to slander their personality that we might not know; 
what is required is to deny the act and to rather carry a 
renunciation, loving the actor for what it has in virtues and 
hating him for what he has of vices and deviating from the path 
of the Shari'ah. It would be required, in some instances, to 
caution the actors openly and caution people from then. It is as 
if this person or that organization became famous by committing 
atrocities, by the public and the private circles (and what he 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

is famous for was true and proven) and if these acts were 
repeated by him and he did not confirm by advice or warning. 
 
I may add here that what is required in announcing the denial - 
particularly at this stage– is the inability of the scholars for 
a secret and direct denial. This is because of the bad security 
situations, and what it requires in taking precaution from 
meeting people and staying in the abyss of the house and so on. 
This is in addition to what I have mentioned of our occasional 
ignorance of those responsible for those crimes.  
 
Building on what was said, and as a first step in that 
direction, and for the sake of correcting the path and repenting 
what has happened, and to call for victory and relieve the 
affliction that is encountering us, I have prepared this paper.  
 
I hope that God would help the scholars to study and review and 
correct, or record similar statements - copying here is desired 
for documentation and influencing the receiving side. They 
should remember the words dispersed here and there, as those 
embedded in the books and the speeches are not enough to explain 
the problem. What we need is direct speeches, defined and 
specialized on that subject. 
 
This is the suggested text: 
 
(Page 18 of 21) 
  
Acquittal and Warning  
 
In the name of God the merciful the compassionate  
 
God almighty has stated:  "And fight those who are fighting you 
and do not be aggressive as God does not like the aggressors " 
 
Qa'ida al-Jihad Organization has denounced, more than once, and 
on the tongue of its Emirs and scholars and symbols and those 
who speak in favor, any armed operation that targets the Muslims 
in the places of their gathering, and any operation that does 
not account for the sanctity of their blood, souls, bodies, 
belongings or money. This acquittal includes the explosive 
operations that takes place in the center of markets, streets, 
restaurants, hotels that are packed with Muslims. It also 
includes, as a first principal, the detonation of mosques on the 
heads of the innocent praying public, shattering their bodies. 
Associated with that is exposing the Qur'an and the religious 
books to indignation and destruction. 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

 
The acquittal of the organization was not just an empty media-
driven step, but the organization was and still is giving advice 
after advice to those who commit those acts, directly and 
through its special channels. By denying them those horrible 
acts and guiding them to the right path, hoping to correct the 
path and stop the repetition of what happened. These efforts 
gave fruit in a few instances, and some people have returned to 
the straight path. But there are some who insist on following a 
wrong method and a distorted jurisprudence, for the sake of 
taking revenge from whoever wronged him or let him down or stood 
with his enemy, even if this revenge is carried out at the 
expense of innocent Muslims. This spirit of blind revenge and 
pre-Islamic (TN: religiously ignorant) intolerance is not from 
the manners of the Mujahidin, who are loyal and honest in their 
behavior. 
 
Here we are, announcing it again in the open: We denounce any 
operation carried out by a Jihadi group that does not consider 
the sanctity of Muslims and their blood and money. We refuse to 
attribute these crimes to Qa'ida al-Jihad Organization. If it is 
to be proven that those responsible for it are connected with 
the organization, the organization will take the appropriate 
measures towards them. This position and the judgment is not to 
be changed if the act is carried out in the name of Jihad or 
under the banner of establishing Shari'ah and the legal 
measures, or under the name of promoting virtue and preventing 
vice. As long as it is forbidden in God's religion, we are 
disassociated with it. It is not acceptable to consider these 
personal crimes as a pretext to deny the duty of the compulsory 
Jihad duty, as a mistake does not justify a bigger mistake. We 
warn those responsible for those crimes, of disgrace in this 
lifetime and painful torture in the other. The consequences of 
injustice are grave, and injustice is the darkness of the Day of 
Judgment.  
 
Injustice is one of the reasons behind defeat and 
disappointment, and the befallen miseries and sedition by the 
general public Muslims and the Mujahidin, as God has stated: 
(And fear tumult or oppression, which affected noting particular 
(only) those of you who do wrong and know that God is strict in 
punishment.) For those who insist on this criminal and pre-
Islamic behavior should know that he is doomed to the same 
destiny that faced leaderships and groups and other trends in 
various arenas, after they shed the blood of Muslims, in bias to 
their group, doctrines and banners, by arguments that were 
weaker than the spider's web. 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

 
The Prophet (PBUH) has said (who left the obedience, and left 
the group and died, his death is a pre-Islamic death. Who fought 
under a blind banner, biased to a group or supports a group, and 
then dies, his death is pre-Islamic. Who diverted from my nation 
striking the good and the evil, and does not avoid the faithful, 
and does not honor a pledge, he is not from me and I am not from 
him) as narrated by Muslim. 
 
(Page 19 of 21) 
 
I am surprised from that one allows himself or others to 
detonate a mosque full of praying individuals, or any other 
place where Muslims gather, just for the sake of killing one of 
the individuals present in that location. My surprise increases 
when this takes place in areas famous in manufacturing various 
firearms, where it is sold cheaply and could be easily 
purchased. If that targeted person really deserves to be killed, 
why not employ another method rather than the random attacks, 
which is not tolerated by any mind or religion. Which does not 
differentiate between and enemy and a friend, the child and the 
old man, the man and the woman and the Muslim and the infidel? 
Have you not remembered that you are fighting in the Muslim 
towns and not in the infidel's fortresses? 
 
And if you say that this barbaric style is known in your tribal 
traditions, or your people's traditions, or tolerated by your 
Shaykh or Emir, we would say: It is not allowed in our Islam, 
and down with these traditions and opinions. A fight that is not 
guided by the Shari'ah rules is not honored. If the fight 
adheres to the tribal traditions and human opinions that violate 
the Shari'ah, whose ruling is no different from the 
constitutions and manmade laws, we should repudiate from and 
those rules should not be followed. 
 
My Mujahid brother: He who is satisfied with those acts, or who 
orders them, or conducts them, is either an ignorant that needs 
education, or an agent planted amongst the ranks for the benefit 
of the enemies of the Mujahidin. 
 
It is our hope that those in charge of those criminal acts that 
distort the Jihad and the Mujahidin only represents a gang of a 
few marginalized individuals. But we remind all about their duty 
in propagating virtue and preventing vice, and punishing the 
tyrant. As the Messenger of God (PBUH) said: (I swear by the one 
whose soul is in his hands, you would order the virtue and deny 
the vice, or God would send you a punishment from him, then you 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

would pray and he would not respond to you) narrated by al-
Tirmithi and streamlined by al-Albani. 
 
Or as he said, peace and prayers be upon (If the people saw the 
tyrant and they did not stop him, God would impose on them his 
punishment). 
 
As stated by him, peace and prayers be upon him (Support your 
brother if he is a tyrant or if he is under a tyrant. They said: 
Messenger of God we would support who is under tyranny, but how 
about the tyrant? He replied: by preventing him from being a 
tyrant). 
 
And therefore, every Muslim or Mujahid, if he knows about an 
individual or leader from the leaders -even if he was his Emir-  
with the intent of such banned and tyrant acts, which are 
totally forbidden, he should advise him. If the person did not 
yield to his or other people's advice, he should report him. But 
not to the police of the idolater or his army or his security 
forces, as these are a bigger injustice and a horrible mistake 
and a criminal act. But to one whose knowledge and faith from 
the Emirs of Mujahidin and their scholars he trusts to take the 
suitable action against the perpetrators. This is in 
implementation of the statement of God almighty: (O ye who 
believe! stand out firmly for justice, as witnesses to God, even 
as against yourselves, or your parents, or your kin). 
 
(Page 20 of 21) 
 
It is also banned on the Mujahid to obey his Emir in disobeying 
God, as stated by prayers by God be upon him (No obedience in a 
God's disobedience, obedience is only in doing favors). If the 
Muslim is ordered in a matter that violates the Shari'ah, he 
should not obey his Emir, even if his Emir was the drawn sword 
of God Khalid Ibn al-Walid –may God be satisfied with– (TN: a 
prominent army general in the early Islamic days). So how about 
when the one issuing the order is in a lower status? If he is 
mixed up about the order, and if it amongst the allowed or 
forbidden acts, and he was unable to consult a scholar, he 
should consult his heart, and to take care of his religion and 
his other life. He should remember that the original judgment on 
the Muslims souls, money and honor, the extreme forbidders. And 
that their blood is never allowed to be spilled, nor money taken 
or dishonor, or hurt him or branding him as an infidel, except 
upon a legal proof clearer than the sun in the middle of the 
day.  
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

God stated: (If a man kills a believer intentionally, his 
recompense is Hell, to abide therein (Forever): And the wrath 
and the curse of God are upon him, and a dreadful penalty is 
prepared for him. O ye who believe! When ye go abroad in the 
cause of God, investigate carefully, and say not to anyone who 
offers you a salutation: "Thou art none of a believer!" Coveting 
the perishable goods of this life: with God are profits and 
spoils abundant. Even thus were ye yourselves before, till God 
conferred on you His favors: Therefore carefully investigate. 
For God is well aware of all that ye do  ( .The Women Surah 93-94. 
The Prophet (PBUH) stated: (The believer is within the realm of 
his religion as long as he did not target forbidden blood) 
narrated by al-Bukhari. 
 
The Prophet (PBUH) stated: (The Muslim is who the Muslims are 
safe from his tongue and hand, and al-Muhajir is he who left 
whatever God has forbidden). 
 
Finally, I remind my Mujahidin brothers that conducting the duty 
of Jihad and battle, and even dying for the sake of God, does 
not make us safe from the anger of God, if we spoil our Jihad by 
big sins and we did not seek repentance before it was too late. 
As a good example of that, the story of the group of people who 
were branded by the Qur'an for ridiculing God's verses, as they 
went out with Muslims in Tabuk battle. Another example is the 
story of the man who was killed in one of the Prophet's battles 
(PBUH). People said (he is a martyr), the Prophet (PBUH) denied 
him as a martyr saying: No, I have seen him in a robe in hell. 
Then the Prophet (PBUH) said: To 'Umar Ibn al-Khattab: 'Umar go 
and call on the people: Heaven is only entered by the believers. 
'Umar said: I went out and called: That heaven is only entered 
by believers. Narrated by Muslim.  
 
So, not every martyr in this world is a martyr in the Day of 
Judgment. Also, not all guilt is forgiven for the martyr of the 
second life. From the guilt that is not forgiven is the debt of 
money. As the Prophet (PBUH) said in the Hadith that was 
narrated by Muslim in his Correct book: (The martyr is forgiven 
of every guilt except the debt). Imam al-Nawawi –may God bless 
his soul-have said: (In his statement of May God pray and greet 
him (except the debt) is a notice on all the human rights. The 
Jihad and martyrdom and other good deeds do not eliminate the 
rights of the humans, but the rights of God violations are 
forgiven). If the individual is martyred and there were a few 
dinars of loan, he will be denied heaven until the debt is paid 
–as stated in some reporting. Now how about he who has killed 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

scores or even hundreds of Muslim souls that he killed in 
absolute injustice? He is more eligible to be denied the heaven. 
 
(Page 21 of 21) 
 
So let us take the initiative for repentance of our sins, the 
smallest to the biggest, with increased pleading for pardon and 
prayers, calling for God's victory and deferring his anger and 
punishment, almighty. We should avoid any wrongdoings of all 
types, and give justice to whom deserve it, before a coming day, 
where money and sons do not help except those who face God with 
a sound heart. 
 
Our last request is to thank God, the Lord of Heavens, and may 
God pray on Muhammad and his kindred and his followers. 
 
AH The Declaration. 
 
If you are satisfied with this declaration, I suggest that it be 
reviewed by the wise men of Taliban Movements in both Pakistan 
and Afghanistan and the groups in other arenas. This declaration 
could be the beginning of a wider campaign in this context. 
Brother 'Ubayd had a good idea, and I add my voice to his, and 
that is to place at the end of every tape – which is sent 
presently from "Saladin Grandsons" and whatever – that it should 
contain in the future, programmed and Fiqh directives, 
cautioning from the common errors in Jihad. We would incorporate 
in it –for example- some Qur'anic Surah and Hadith that I have 
quoted in the suggested declaration like: (You the believers if 
you strike for the sake of God, make sure and do not say to 
those greeting you that you are not believers) or (The believer 
is within the realm of his religion as long as he did not target 
a forbidden blood) or (The Muslim is who the Muslims are safe 
from his tongue and hand, and al-Muhajir is he who left whatever 
God has forbidden) or similar Hadith. Ahead of it we place (The 
Mujahid Brother: remember the statement of God almighty…) or (To 
the Mujahid: remember the statement of the Messenger of God 
(PBUH)). We may place, instead of the Surah and Hadith, advice 
from us, like: No to detonating mosques and markets) or 
(spilling the denied blood and confiscating the stolen money is 
a tyranny, and aggression causes God's anger and delays victory) 
and so on. 
 
There are other mistakes that may be confronted as much as 
possible, that I may discuss in another paper. 
 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT 
 

Finally, let us thank God the Lord of the heavens, you God we 
thank you and give witness that there is no God but God but you 
and we ask for your forgiveness.  

 

SOCOM-2012-0000004-HT