 

 

Page 1 
 
Dear Brother 'Adnan (Hafiz ((Sultan))): 
 
I also asked you in previous letters to quickly write to 
((Karrumi)), ((Abu-'Umar)), and their people with decisive, 
purposeful, guidance, because I am worried about the brothers 
making political gaffes. You must have heard Abu-'Umar's bad 
[speech] recently, and in my view [he made some] obvious 
mistakes. There were some things that should not have been 
said in a speech by a commander. The fact that they were 
mentioned in his speech - especially in the context of 
principles and being rewarded (TN: by God, for good deeds) - 
indicates that they are extremists and implies they are deeply 
entrenched and in a hurry [to act]... such things are a turn-
off and [show] lack of judgment. 
 
I wrote to them myself and chastised them and came down on 
them fairly hard. 
 
I am afraid that if they continue using techniques such as 
this, they will spoil [things and] alienate the people, who 
could be won over by enemy after enemy. That would give our 
enemies and rivals an opportunity to exploit [the people], and 
they would wage a ruthless campaign of lies and malicious 
slander to distort (TN: the image of Abu-'Umar and al-Karrumi) 
and alienate [the people against them]. This requires closing 
any doors we can on the enemy and cutting them off; however, 
our brothers are making things worse by opening themselves up 
to evil and hostility! 
 
What I mean is: Do not let Mahmud ( (('Atiyah)) ) alone. I 
want you to have open and private messages issued publicly and 
in secret by 'Abd-al-Shafi (Kalim) - and even al-Sadiq ( 
((Zamrai)) ), if possible - to al-Karrumi, Abu-'Umar, and 
their brothers, with guidance and advice. Send them direct and 
semi-direct messages that clearly and specifically talk about 
issues of "grassroots" politics, how to deal with the public 
and other factions, avoid rushing things, and undertake 
matters of great significance only [after obtaining] advice. 
[They should also be advised to] make every effort to bring 
people on board, to not describe any of the other mujahidin as 
illegitimate, and so forth, as appropriate. Such talk is 
premature, as people have different ideas, interpretations, 
and views. 
 
Please move quickly on this. 
 
Dear brother, write [to them] yourself, since al-Karrumi knows 
you and always asks me about you, calling you "(maternal) 
Uncle so-and-so." Have 'Abd-al-Hafiz (TN: AKA ((Abu-Yahya)) 

 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000011-HT 

 

al-Libi, senior LIFG religious scholar and member of al-
Qa'ida's Shari'ah Committee) write to the brothers, and he 
should never tire of writing and pressuring them; also have 
Ahmad (('Abd-al-'Azim)) write, as he is very influential with 
them and they admire him a lot. Anyone else who is influential 
[should write to them as well]. 
 
Another very important issue is that you must write to our 
brothers in the Ansar al-Sunnah (AAS), who are waiting for 
your responses to their earlier correspondence and grievances. 
Ask for help from 'Abd-al-Hafiz and Ahmad (TN:  AKA ((Abu-
Layth)) al-Libi, senior LIFG official and al-Qa'ida regional 
commander), and also try to have a letter issued to them from 
'Abd-al-Shafi. At the very least, write to them using normal, 
polite language that would not cost them anything. They could 
be very simple, positive words of promise and that things will 
work out; that you will follow up [with them], offer advice 
and guidance; that you have written to the brothers and will 
[continue to] write. You should also urge them, the AAS, to 
unite with their brothers, as 'Abd-al-Hafiz did on the tape 
[recording]. You should mention that you believe duty requires 
this, and despite the failings and problems that exist, 
disunion is worse than all of that. On the contrary, together 
with their brothers, God willing, they will be an agent of 
reform and redemption, etc. 
 
Of course, dear Brother, I have written to the AAS several 
times, most recently two days ago. I am in touch with them, 
offering advice and guidance to have them think better [of 
us], and trying to patch things up and bring them and al-
Karrum closer together. But I protest to God so much about my 
isolation and being alone - there is no power or strength save 
in God - that I worry people will tire of me and [what I say] 
will become old and worn out to them!! 
 
But I protest only to God. 
 
"For me God sufficeth, and He is the best disposer of 
affairs." (TN: quote from the Qur’an) 
 
Page 2 
 
(TN: The following begins as though it might be a separate 
message from that on page 1:) 
 
Dear Brother, 
 
We need guidance from you on the issue of using chlorine gas 
technology. It was reported that the brothers in Iraq have 
used it, but this was implicitly denied in a statement issued 
by the Islamic State of Iraq.  

SOCOM-2012-0000011-HT 

 

 
Also, the brothers where Mahmud is (TN: possible reference to 
'Atiyah (('Abd-al-Rahman)) being in Iran) have the potential 
to use [chlorine gas] on the forces of the apostates, Jalal 
((Talibani)) and Mas'ud ((Barzani)), and have already 
considered using it. However, I informed them that matters as 
serious as this required centralized [coordination] and 
permission from the senior [al-Qa'ida] leadership, because the 
gas could be difficult to control and might harm some people, 
which could tarnish our image, alienate people from us, and so 
on. Like we say, "it's not our business," or, "we already have 
enough problems," God help us. 
 
They have put it on hold for now, but the best thing would be 
for you, brother 'Adnan, to examine this issue with your 
experts there and give us a clear pronouncement on that to 
tell the brothers! 
 
God bless you and help you. 
 
-- I have not received any news from Karrumi since the last 
message I sent you. I am expecting messages from them but have 
not received any yet. On the whole, though, their reports on 
the field and regarding trade are very good, and there is 
progress, praise God. However, the fighting against them is 
fierce in every respect, and I am constantly worried about 
only a few mistakes. None of the enemies scare me, I swear. No 
matter who they are, or how intimidating they may be, they are 
even more despicable and trivial than that. But I do worry 
about ours and our brothers' mistakes, bad behavior, and lack 
of wisdom at times. That is why I always strongly urge you, 
Brother, to work together, follow through, and offer lots of 
guidance and assurance; perhaps God will deliver us and open 
the way to our brothers. 
 
At any rate, our brothers are fine and well, and their reports 
from the field are promising. Many of the accusations against 
them are pure lies and fiction, and the campaign against them 
is fierce; they need help. We ask God to give them strength, 
deliver them and make them victorious over the ungodly and the 
unjust. Amen. 
 
-- Maybe I will attach a file to this message with a selected 
collection of articles, statements and other items from the 
Internet, for your benefit. 
 
-- We will try to make arrangements with the brothers in 
Lebanon to have one of their representatives visit us in the 
near future. God grant us success. 
 

SOCOM-2012-0000011-HT 

 

-- The al-Nasayib are well and doing fine. At the bottom I 
will paste the latest message from them. They send many 
regards, and have also requested some things from you. 
 
-- Finally, many regards to you, the beloved one, and to 
Mansur, ((Abu-Khalil)), and any other dear ones around you who 
know us. Unfortunately, right now we are in a situation where 
we can only say "hello" to those we know [personally], and 
just barely!! 
 
May God preserve, watch over and bless you all. 
Peace be with you, and God's mercy and blessings. 
Your admirer 
 
9/4/(1432 H) – corresponding to 28 March (2011) 
 
This is the message from al-Nasayib: (the brothers in Algeria) 
 
Dear Brother, peace be with you, and God's mercy and 
blessings. 
 
As for us, by God, we are fine, praise to Him, as is the whole 
family. Things are steadily improving: morale is rising, 
support is growing, and military activity has been improving 
recently. Every week there is a bombing, an encounter or 
ambushes. Overall, based on what I have been seeing, there is 
a resurgence. We ask God to make things easier and [help us] 
 
Page 3 
 
surmount the difficulties. Regarding the enemy, they were 
thrown off by the recent strikes and have responded with 
continuous random shelling of the mountains. This has been 
very good for the brothers, as much of the ammunition has not 
detonated and the brothers are using it. The brothers are also 
used to the scare-tactic combing operations, which have been 
unsuccessful, thank God, except for last week, when five 
brothers were martyred in an all-day encounter; we ask God to 
accept them. Overall, the brothers have been impacted [most] 
by ambushes in the north of the country using infrared sensors 
(which were provided to the Algerian tyrant by the Americans). 
As for the desert, the brothers are concerned about the 
Russian Cobra helicopters (MI-34) with laser-guided missiles; 
they are impacting on the four-wheel-drive vehicles, which are 
indispensible in the Sahara Desert. Underlying that is the 
problem of badly needed money for good-quality weapons to 
counter these menacing helicopters; the mujahidin don't have 
single one of them, nor a single missile. Brother, it would be 
very good if the brothers there could let us know their 
expertise in that regard, that is, ways to counter the 6-km 
infrared sensors and MI-34 helicopters. 

SOCOM-2012-0000011-HT 

 

 
I cannot forget the response from the Libyan brothers along 
the front lines. The commander in the east informed us that 
four new brothers joined them last week, following a group of 
about 30 brothers before that, and there are more who want to 
come join. We ask that God enable our brothers to bring them 
in and train them in Tabsa [Algeria]. 
 
Peace be with you, and God's mercy and blessings. 

SOCOM-2012-0000011-HT