And before closing: I make mention to you (plural) of a very 

important matter that came to me, which is changing the name of 

(Qa‟ida al-Jihad), because there are several necessary and 

attention-worthy reasons to change it, of them: 

1. This name (Qa‟ida al-Jihad) was abridged by the people and 
only a few people remember this name; it has come to be 

known as (al-Qa‟ida) and this name reduces the feeling of 

Muslims that we belong to them, and allows  the enemies to 

claim deceptively that they are not at war with Islam and 

Muslims, but they are at war with the organization of al-

Qa‟ida, which is an outside entity from the teachings of 

Islam and this is what was raised repeatedly in the past as 

indicated by Obama, that our war is not on Islam or on the 

Muslim people but rather our war is on the al-Qa‟ida 

organization, so if the word al-Qa‟ida was derived from or 

had strong ties to the word Islam or Muslims; or if it had 

the name Islamic party, it would be difficult for Obama to 

say that. It is clear from the past also that they (the 

enemies) have largely stopped using the phrase “the war on 

terror” in the context of not wanting to provoke Muslims, 

because they felt that saying the war on terror could 

appear to most people to be a war on Islam, especially 

after they unjustly spilled the blood of innocent Muslims 

in Iraq and Afghanistan.  We ask God the Almighty to have 

mercy on our Islamic brothers.  

 

For example, the name of our brothers in the Shabaab 

organization, Al-Arabiya (TN:  news network) often 

identifies them with the Shabaab movement, only it avoids 

the name al-jihad or al-mujahidin. 

 
2. The name of an entity carries its message and represents 
it.  Al-Qa‟ida describes a military base with fighters 

without a reference to our broader mission to unify the 

nation.  

 

Building on what is presented, it would be nice if you 

could discuss and come up with appropriate names that would 

not be easily shortened to a word that does not represent 

us.  It would help if the name is a method of delivery of 

SOCOM-2012-0000009-HTour message to reach the sons of the Umma/nation.  These 

are some suggestions: 

 

Taifat al-tawhid wal-jihad (TN: Monotheism and Jihad Group) 

Taifat al-tawhid wal-difa‟ „an al-Islam (TN: Monotheism and 

Defending Islam Group) 

Jama‟at i‟adat al-khilafat al-rashida (TN: Restoration of 

the Caliphate Group) 

Jama‟at nasr al-Islam wal-aksa (TN: Support of Islam and 

Al-Aqsa Group) 

Jama‟at wihda al-Muslimin (TN: Muslim Unity Group) 

Tanthim al-Jihadi li-tawhid al-Umma wa-inkathiha (TN: Jihad 

Organization for Unification and Rescue of the Nation) 

Tanthim al-Jihadi litahrir al-aksa wa-tawhid al-Umma (TN: 

Jihad Organization to Liberate Al-Aqsa and Unify the 

Nation) 

Hizb tawhid al-Umma al-Islamiya (TN: Islamic Nation 

Unification Party) 

Jama‟at tahrir al-aksa (TN: Al-Aqsa Liberation Group) 

Jama‟at inkath wanahdat al-Umma (TN: Rescue and 

Revitalization of the Nation Group) 

 

SOCOM-2012-0000009-HT