 

Page 1 
 
A Letter of Hope and Good News to Our People in Egypt 
 
In the name of God. Praise be to God, and prayers and peace be 
upon the prophet, his family, and companions 
 
Beloved Muslim brothers wherever you are, God‟s peace, mercy, 
and blessings be upon you. 
 
This the fourth part of the Letter of Hope and Good News to Our 
People in Egypt and I will dedicate it to the popular eruption 
that is going on in the Arab world in general and in Egypt in 
particular. In the last part, I promised to talk about the issue 
of Southern Sudan, but I have decided to postpone this for 
another part, God willing. 
 
First, I would like to repeat the greetings to the free and 
honorable people who erupted in Tunisia, Egypt, Jordan, and 
Yemen, and those who rose up and resisted the corrupt rulers, 
the corrupters, the Zionist Arabs, the fighters of Islam and the 
hijab, the spreaders of immorality, the collaborators with 
Israel against al-Mujahidin, the imposers of the siege on Gaza 
while supplying Nile water and gas to Israel, and the deniers of 
medical treatment and trade in Egypt for the people of Gaza, 
while allowing tens of thousands of Israelis to enter Sinai 
without a visa to commit immorality in order to fill the pockets 
of the greatest criminals with this illegitimate money. 
 
Those are the corrupt and corrupting rulers who joined the 
United States in her war against Islam and the Muslims in the 
name of “terrorism,” and from whose airports and seaports 
aircraft and warships deployed to bomb Muslims in Afghanistan 
and Iraq, and who turned their prisons to torture stations in 
the service of the crusade. 
 
A greeting to every honest and free person who sacrificed his 
life and his comfort to resist the corrupt and corrupting in 
Tunisia, Algeria, Egypt, Yemen, Jordan, and all the other Muslim 
lands. Greetings to those brave and free, and I pray to God to 
have mercy on their martyrs, grant their families patience and 
comfort, heal their wounded, and end their imprisonment.  
 
My free, honorable, and zealous brothers, your Mujahidin 
brothers are with you, facing your enemy, confronting the US and 
her Western allies who appointed Mubarak, Zayn-al-„Abidin Bin-

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT 
 

„Ali, „Ali „Abdallah Salih, „Abdallah Bin-al-Husayn, and others 
as rulers above you. 
 
The US‟s reversal of its policy to support the oppressors and 
the tyrants and its attempt to deal with the Muslim people 
through the policy of softness, deception, and soft power are 
the direct results of the blessed attacks on New York, 
Washington, and Pennsylvania. Since those attacks, the US and 
all Western countries have started to redraw their policies.  
 
Page 2 
 
(I am afraid that this sentence might be inappropriate and might 
be perceived by many people as braggadocio and an attempt to 
monopolize the accomplishment. I think that our best and closest 
to the truth speech should include words. such as 
“participation” and “contribution.” We should say that this 
change was caused by the unity of the efforts of the children of 
this nation ,including al-Mujahidin. God knows best.) 
 
The US‟s concession and reversal is not sufficient and will not 
please any free and honest Muslim or anyone who wants justice 
among the non-Muslims. Therefore, your Mujahidin brothers 
promise you that they will continue to attack the US and her 
partners until they leave the lands of the Muslims and stop 
supporting the tyrants and the oppressors through the help of 
God. God is my witness. 
 
My free and honest brothers in Egypt, this is a very sensitive 
phase, and you have to make sure that you are protective of your 
faith, honor, and dignity. You should insist upon your 
principles, beliefs, and faith ,and you should work on 
strengthening them. 
 
There are many who are watching and would jump on the 
opportunity to derail your movement so as to achieve their 
aspirations and goals. 
 
My free and honest brothers who are loyal to their faith and 
their nation, your blessed movement erupted to confront the 
oppression and the corruption of the ruling regime and to change 
it. So when we talk about change, let us present the issue in a 
medical approach by talking about the disease and then about its 
cure. 
 
What is the disease that the corrupt regime most recently 
represented by Egypt? 

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT 
 

 
Egypt suffered from the authority of a secular regime that 
fights Islam, corrupts, steals the country‟s treasure, is 
defeatist in front of Israel, and is loyal to the West, which is 
headed by the US.  
 
In previous parts, I talked in detail about that regime.   
 
Here, I want to point out that secularism in our Muslim world in 
general and in Egypt in particular, was not the choice of the 
Egyptian people. The Egyptian people have repeatedly demanded to 
make the Islamic Shari‟a the source of law and legislation and 
to have an Islamic regime. Al-Sadat deceived the Egyptian people 
by adding the second article to the constitution which states 
that Islamic Shari‟a is the main source of legislation in Egypt. 
With this deceitful text, the secularist approach in Egypt 
continued. Secularism was imposed by the occupier through his 
cannons and spears and was imposed once again by those who 
replaced the occupier through fake elections, oppression, and 
cruelty. I explained some of these details in previous parts. 
The demand of the Egyptian people for a Shari‟a-based regime is 
considered one of the most obvious truths about Egypt. 
 
The Shari‟a-based rule was and continues to be the demand (TN 
Arabic grammar correction) of the overwhelming majority of 
Egyptians. Since the „40s, hundreds of lives were lost, tens of 
thousands were imprisoned, and twice that number were tortured 
for the sake of achieving it. 
 
Page 3 
 
External powers (TN Arabic grammar correction) and their local 
agents in Egypt made sure to demote the Shari‟ah-based rule 
through oppression and deceit. The demotion of Shari‟a-based 
rule and the strengthening of secularists were among the most 
important instructions by the American administration, 
especially after the events of 9/11. Whoever wants evidence of 
this should read the RAND Center publications, especially the 
books “Civil and Democratic Islam,” and “Building Moderate 
Muslim Networks.” These books emphasize that the US‟s interests 
are with secularists and reformists because they are the true 
allies. They also talk about the importance of attacking and 
demoting Islamists in general and Jihadists in particular. 
 
These Western powers that invaded our countries, stole our 
resources, and violated our independence, realized that their 
main enemy is an Islam that is capable of mobilizing Muslims to 

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT 
 

form a superpower that would challenge their control and 
confront their crimes.  
 
The West encouraged and continues to encourage the robbers and 
corrupt tyrants and oppressors to seize power in our countries, 
because they are obedient and useful for accomplishing interests 
and because they are easy to bribe in exchange for dangerous 
concessions that affect our security and sovereignty. In return, 
the West will get whatever it desires from our independence and 
resources. They turned a blind eye to the crimes of the rulers 
and the corrupt elite that surround them and join them in 
corruption.  
 
For 30 years, the US was silent toward the corruption and the 
embezzlement by Mubarak, his family, and his inner circle. It 
did not start talking about transition of power in Egypt until 
the security forces failed to suppress the uprising of the 
Egyptian people who are starving for dignity and freedom. 
 
Anyone who monitors the statements of the US administration and 
its president and the statements of Western leaders would notice 
the gradual shift from talking about protecting stability in 
Egypt to asking Mubarak to resign. They were not only saying 
that they want Mubarak to resign; they were asking for an 
orderly and controlled transition that would allow change of 
faces, and perhaps regime, but would maintain the current 
policies. They want to continue with the policies that fight 
Islam and demote the Shari‟a, even if the overwhelming majority 
of Egyptians demand it, and policies that do not oppose to the 
American and Western military presence in Afghanistan, Iraq, the 
Arabian Peninsula, the Gulf, and the Islamic Maghreb. They want 
to continue with a policy that helps that presence and supplies 
it with whatever it needs, including supplies, fuel, airports, 
seaports, bases, information, forces, and polices that ensure 
the survival of Israel, continues the pressure on the 
Palestinian people in Gaza and elsewhere in order to give in to 
the Israeli aspirations and accept a government headed by 
compromisers and defeatists, and ensures the continuation of the 
Zionist project for the destruction of al-Aqsa and the 
Judiazation of Palestine. 
 
Page 4 
 
This is the democracy that the US wants for us; a democracy that 
is especially designed for the Third World in general and the 
Islamic world in particular. We witnessed this democracy in the 
election of the Rescue Front in Algeria, and we witnessed it 

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT 
 

when the US and the West boycotted the government that was 
formed by Hamas, and in the US‟s appointment of Karzai as 
president even after it admitted that he rigged the election. 
 
At first glance, it might seem that the US and the West have 
contradiction and double standards in what they are allowed to 
do and what they forbid other from doing. This democracy that 
they claim and what they brag about is not appropriate and not 
allowed for others. However, a deeper look would reveal that 
this is true democracy, for democracy is in actuality a religion 
that worships an idol called “the mood of the majority” with 
total disregard to religion, morality, values, or principles. 
For them, everything is relative and can be changed depending on 
the number of votes (and depending on the wishes of financial 
powers, pressure groups, and large companies. The reality is 
that democracy is a game of lies because it lacks honesty). He 
who looks at Western history in general and American history in 
particular would find scandalous examples of this. The US and 
the West imposed Israel on us and brought an entire nation and 
settled it in Palestine and uprooted an entire nation from its 
land and refused to allow it to return to it with total 
disregard to the opinion of the majority and the right to self 
determination for the uprooted.  
 
The majority in the US and the West wanted to expel the 
Palestinians from their land; therefore, they were expelled. 
“This is democracy and let these people go to hell.”  
 
Democracy is not a principle, morality, or values. Democracy is 
a religion based upon honoring the mood of the majority. The 
mood of the majority in the West, the US, and Israel does not 
want for our countries to have governments that represent their 
people; instead, they wish to have submissive governments that 
follow their orders. 
 
More specifically, they want our countries to have a democracy 
that will allow the continuation of their occupation of Iraq and 
Afghanistan and will allow their armies and fleets to continue 
to control the sources of oil. They want a democracy that will 
accept the Israeli military supremacy with nuclear weapons, 
which al-Barad‟i did not dare to demand that they be inspected 
or impose any sanction against Israel because of them. They want 
a democracy that bans Shar‟ia-based governance even if the 
overwhelming majority of our people want it. They want a 
democracy that accepts the confiscation of most of Palestine and 
giving it to the Zionist entity. They want a democracy that will 
continue the siege on Gaza and the suffocation of the resistance 

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT 
 

against Israel. They want a democracy that will fight jihad in 
the name of fighting terrorism. 
 
Page 5 
 
They want a democracy that will impose secularism on us and will 
prohibit us from committing to Islam, such as the democracy of 
Turkey that they try to market to us. They want a democracy that 
will change the foundations of our social behavior so that we 
will accept perversion and accept a family that is not based on 
a husband, wife, and children; instead, it would be based on a 
very ugly image of filth. They want a democracy that will change 
our educational curriculums to make us accept the occupier, the 
aggressor, the robber of our resources, and the fighter of our 
faith. They want a democracy that will promote an Islam that is 
without Jihad, Shari‟a, promotion of virtue, prohibition of 
vice, loyalty and disavowal, and unification.  
 
This deceit by the Western governments goes beyond democracy and 
applies to their complaints about freedom of press and the bad 
treatment of journalists in Egypt, while they are the ones who 
bombed Al Jazeera‟s offices in Baghdad and Kabul, and they are 
the ones who detained Taysir „Alluni for conducting an interview 
with al-Shaykh „Usama Bin-Ladin, may God protect him, after the 
invasion of Afghanistan (or for sympathizing with Taliban). 
 
To strengthen a regime that is loyal to her, the US shamelessly 
and disgracefully intervenes in Egyptian affairs, issues 
instructions and orders day after day, sends it representatives 
for direct involvement, and contacts the government and some 
opposition factions as if it is dealing with a farm or a branch 
of a company that it owns. This humiliating style in the 
American treatment of Egypt became deeply rooted by Mubarak and 
by al-Sadat before him.  
 
So, this is the disease that the corrupt Egyptian regime 
represents. As I said before, it is a secular regime that fights 
Islam, oppresses, corrupts, steals resources, is defeatist in 
front of Israel, and is loyal to the West that is headed by the 
US. 
 
So, what is the cure? 
 
The cure is to amputate this corrupt regime and replace it with 
a good, just, and Shari‟a-based regime that spreads Shura and 
justice and will allow the nation to participate in selecting 
their rulers and holding them accountable and will allow their 

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT 
 

active participation in managing their affairs through their 
representatives, and will work on redistributing the nation‟s 
wealth and on stopping the theft, embezzlement, wickedness, and 
immorality, and will confront the Western hegemony over our 
countries, and will aid in ending the oppression of any 
oppressed person in our nation, in Palestine, Iraq, Afghanistan, 
and every corner of the Islamic world, and ending the oppression 
of every oppressed person in the world, because oppression is 
forbidden to Muslims and non-Muslims. 
 
The Prophet said, “God said, „My people, I banned oppression for 
myself and I banned it amongst you, so do not 
oppress.‟”(Footnote 1)      
 
The removal of the tyrant and the amputation of the corrupt 
regime is nothing but a step or steps on the path to a cure. It 
is like a surgeon who cuts open the abdomen of a cancer patient, 
who will not heal until this cancer is removed and the abdomen 
is stitched back together and the patient is cared for until he 
recovers. 
 
(Footnote 1) I suggest that at the beginning you should include 
the poem that I attached to you in a file named “Good News.” 
 
Page 6 
 
The removal of the tyrant is like a doctor cutting open the 
abdomen of a cancer patient and leaving him (it is not a good 
analogy).  
 
The honest, free, and the zealots for their faith, honor, and 
dignity should not be satisfied with the removal of the regime 
that deserves to be removed; instead, they should continue to 
with jihad and struggle until the Islamic regime that achieves 
justice, freedom, and independence is established.  
 
The free and honest should not allow the US or others who are 
waiting to pounce and steal the fruit of their uprising and 
eruption.  
 
At the beginning of the demonstrations, the US tried to preserve 
the tyrant and hoped that he would be able to suppress the 
popular uprising. Then, it moved to the second option, which is 
being implemented at this time, to remove the tyrant and to 
transfer power to other trusted members of his regime. The third 
option is for the US to work on getting rid of the regime and 

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT 
 

transfer power to a democratic or undemocratic regime, as long 
as it is loyal to her. 
 
The US‟s and the West‟s greatest fear is a rise of Islamic 
regime in Egypt and other Muslim countries that will achieve 
justice and confront their supremacy.  
 
The free and the honest should not accept the remnants of the 
regime or a secular regime that is loyal and submissive to our 
enemies. You should not be deceived by „Umar Sulayman, for he is 
Mubarak‟s man and a loyalist, the trusted man of the American 
intelligence, and the one who was praised by Israel. Also, they 
should not be deceived with Husayn Tantawi, for he is Mubarak‟s 
man and a loyalist and is trusted by the Americans. Didn‟t Obama 
praise the Egyptian Army? Didn‟t the American politicians 
consider it the guarantor of the so-called “stability”? 
 
The Egyptian Army has many free and honest people who are loyal 
to their faith and nation. Wasn‟t it the Egyptian Army who had 
within its ranks Khalid al-Islambuli, „Ata Tayil, Husayn „Abbas, 
„Abd-al-Hamid „Abd-al-Salam, „Isam al-Qumari, and Sulayman 
Khatir (may God rest their souls)? 
 
Unfortunately, Mubarak and the Americans appointed a leadership 
for that army that is loyal to them. 
 
Wasn‟t it the Egyptian Army leadership that allowed the thugs to 
come in with their horses, camels, and weapons to attack 
demonstrators on the Bloody Wednesday? 
 
Before that, wasn‟t it the Egyptian Army who supervised the 
military trials and who issued more than 100 death sentences 
under Mubarak and put many times that number in prisons and 
jails? It is aiding the American military and intelligence 
effort against our nation. 
 
Page 7 
 
It also provides military bases for the Americans and 
facilitates supplies and storage for those forces. 
 
Isn‟t it the entity that participates in the joint training with 
the American forces and NATO, including Bright Star, in which 
the joint forces train on occupying Egypt for when an anti-
American regime gets established there? 
 

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT 
 

Isn‟t it the leadership that receives American military aid of 
about 1.5 billion dollars each year so as to make sure that the 
Egyptian Army is at the service of the American interests? 
 
Isn‟t it the leadership that ordered the siege on Gaza? 
 
From the American perspective, the leadership of the Egyptian 
Army is the guarantor of the surrender treaties with Israel and 
cooperation treaties with the US, the guarantor that Sinai will 
continue to be demilitarized, and the guarantor of the safety of 
the southern Israeli border and the continuation of the siege on 
Gaza. 
 
Speaking of the military courts, I should remind every free, 
honest, and zealous in Egypt to not forget his detained brothers 
in Mubarak‟s prisons, for they sacrificed their treasure, life 
with their families, and were tortured, humiliated, violated, 
and detained for a long time in their struggle against that 
corrupt and corrupting regime. Free and honest people, saving 
those detainees is a responsibility on your shoulders and you 
will be held accountable for it in this life and in the life to 
come. 
 
I call on every free and honest person in Egypt to continue his 
struggle, Jihad, and resistance until the corrupt regime falls 
and an Islamic regime rises. I specifically call on the lions of 
al-Azhar, and I tell them, “O lions of al-Azhar and Islam, this 
is your day. Rise and lead the nation in her struggle for 
establishing the Islamic regime. You can lead the nation if you 
unite, insist upon and grab onto the truth, and you get rid of 
the dwarves that Mubarak imposed upon you. The roar of the lions 
of al-Azhar is starting to echo loud, so continue, be patient, 
and spread patience.” 
 
Lead a campaign by your nation to rise and topple the corrupt 
regime and build the Islamic regime upon its ruins. Prove to 
them that there is no safety without faith, no peace without 
Islam, and no freedom without unification.  
 
Regain your freedom that was stolen from you, for it is your 
right to have the endowment of al-Azhar returned (TN Arabic 
grammar correction) and the right of the scholars of al-Azhar to 
choose their shaykh from among them, and not by a tyrant. Regain 
your right to have an independent union that represents your 
opinion and defends every persecuted amongst you. Why is it that 
every profession, even dancers, has a union and organizations 
representing them except for al-Azhar? 

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT 
 

 
(TN: The following is a poem) 
 
Get up and greet al-Azhar and let the world hear it, 
 
Page 8 
 
For it deserves our praise. 
 
They are more important than kings and have more authority. 
 
There would be so much fear and uncertainty if it were not for 
them. 
 
They know so much about Shari‟a and the are great examples of 
morality. 
 
Al-Azhar became the center of the Muslim world. 
 
Awareness of Muslim issues started in al-Azhar. 
 
You are doing God‟s work on Earth. 
 
You are the defenders of the Muslim world. 
 
Because of you, no ignorant will be allowed to roam the lands. 
 
(TN: end of poem) 
 
My free and honest brothers in Egypt, there are some who want to 
become the rulers of Egypt by making a deal with the Americans. 
A deal that would guarantee that her interests and crimes 
continue in exchange for fake political life and false freedoms 
that are convenient for the US and would take us back to the 
fake political life at the time of the monarchy.  
 
There are some who would like to solve Egypt‟s problems by 
submitting to the US and seeking her help. These people are 
intentionally ignoring the fact that the US is the root of the 
problem. 
 
The free and the honest in Egypt should understand the nature of 
the conflict and that the local enemies are agents (TN Arabic 
grammar correction) for the external enemies. Political freedom 
cannot be achieved away from liberating people from polytheism 
and submission to the foreign invaders. It cannot be 
accomplished except through expelling the occupation forces from 

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT 
 

Egypt, Arabian Peninsula, Afghanistan, Iraq, Palestine, and 
other Muslim countries. It cannot be achieved except through a 
just redistribution of wealth so that the bite does not get 
stolen from the mouth of the poor in order to be deposited in 
the accounts of the thieves abroad. 
 
They need to understand all of this to make sure that the fruit 
and the gains of their uprising do not get stolen.   
 
Before I finish my words, I want to send three messages: 
 
Page 9 
 
My first message is to the people of our beloved Tunisia, the 
Tunisia of Qayrawan (TN: Cyrene), the Tunisia of Jihad and 
steadfastness. I say to them: The tyrant ruler is gone, but the 
tyrant regime is still there. Continue your Jihad and struggle 
until you remove all the tyrants in your country and have the 
banner of Islam, freedom, pride, and justice fly over your 
country. 
 
The second message is to our people in beloved Yemen, Yemen of 
faith and wisdom, the reinforcement of Islam, its servant and 
its supporter. I tell them: Remember your Mujahidin brothers who 
are confronting the tyrant, corrupt, and corrupting regime. I 
urge them to uproot this regime that turned Yemen into a base 
for spying and supplying for the crusade and which filled its 
pockets with the illegitimate crusaders‟ money in exchange for 
killing Yemenis. You started your uprising, so continue with it 
until Yemen is free from the crusaders and their agents. 
 
My third message is to our Muslim nation everywhere. I tell her: 
the US‟s defeat can be seen on the horizon, and her servants are 
starting to fall. Join Jihad and aid those who wage jihad 
against them. 
 
Finally, praise be to God, and prayers and peace be upon prophet 
Muhammad, his family and companions. 
 
God‟s peace, mercy, and blessings be upon you (Footnote 2). 
 
(Footnote 2) I suggest that at the end of the letter you should 
include the poem that I attached to you in a file named 
“Oppression, Go away and Vanish 2” with a picture of Mubarak and 
his son. It would be great if you cold also include pictures of 
the police beating up the people and an appeal to the Egyptian 
people to break the siege on Gaza. Also, there are pictures of 

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT 
 

the beating of demonstrators in Egypt on the first tape named 
“Gaza‟s Sacrifices and the Conspiracies.” Also, there are 
pictures of Mubarak at the end of it. May God grant you success. 

SOCOM-2012-0000013-HT